This article examines the relationship between demographic diversity principles and evaluations of employee voice. An analysis of survey data from 707 employees working at 37 hospitality institutions with different star categories confirmed that trust in the employer, followed by the modest contribution of education, is of the utmost importance in the evaluation of voice systems by all employees. Employee evaluations of voice opportunities were found to display differences between male and female employee groups. While generational cohort was a differentiating attribute for the male group, job tenure had the same effect for the female employees. Implications for future research and for HR managers are discussed.Keywords: Trust in the employer; voice; demographic diversity; generations; accommodation industry; Turkish employeesIntroductionEmployee voice as a concept has been approached by researchers from multiple disciplines, including HRM, organizational behavior (OB), industrial relations (IR), labor economics, political science, and labor law (Wilkinson & Fay, [96]; Klaas, Olson-Buchanan, & Ward, [53]), resulting in different conceptualizations and definitions of the term. In the more recent literature, there is an emerging stream of thought that research on employee voice has become narrow in approach (Budd, [19]; Kaufman, [52]) and that the field will benefit from cross-disciplinary studies (Bashshur & Oc, [ 7]; Gollan, Patmore, & Xu, [36]). Mowbray, Wilkinson, and Tse ([65]) recommend integrating OB and HRM conceptualizations of voice, noting that this will bring an expanded view to the concept.Previous research has shown that employees who find voice opportunities (EVOs) effective are more likely to engage with voice systems (Batt, Colvin, & Keefe, [ 9]). In this article, we address the role of demographic diversity principles and trust in the employer in order to describe employee evaluations of voice opportunities. In doing so, we consider some of the themes in voice that are less frequently tackled in the HRM literature, including informal and upward discretionary communication behavior and particular employee characteristics as found in the OB literature (Mowbray et al., [65]). We aimed to answer the following questions: (a) In which combination of demographic variables does trust in the employer contribute to hotel employees' evaluation of voice opportunities? and (b) Are there differences between hotel employee groups in terms of their evaluation of voice opportunities provided by the employer? We initiated our enquiry in response to a call for more integrated and cross-disciplinary studies (Barry & Wilkinson, [ 6]), and we combined an OB conceptualization of trust in the employer with the HRM understanding of employee voice.Our empirical exploration was based on 707 questionnaires obtained from non-managerial employees working in the accommodation industry (a total of 37 establishments) in Istanbul, Turkey. This research setting is particularly suitable for studying the differences in employee evaluation of voice opportunities in that accommodation industry is recognized as a highly labor-intensive one where employee–manager interactions are frequent and the chances of workplace conflicts are high (Ross, [79]). Additionally, the work environment presents both informal and formal opportunities for employees to engage in voice behavior (Raub & Robert, [75]). Indeed, the industry views employee voice, along with empowerment, as highly instrumental in gaining a competitive advantage through improvements in service quality (Bowen & Lawler, [14]; Lashley, [55]). Furthermore, the typical hotel environment is diverse and therefore possesses 'a number of vulnerable worker' groups such as temporary workers and workers from different socioeconomic backgrounds with varying education levels and from different generational cohorts (Townsend, Wilkinson, & Burgess, [88], p. 350). Finally, Turkey displays an interesting national context characterized by high levels of power distance and in-group collectivism (Kabasakal & Bodur, [50]), as well as a low-trust work environment (Esmer, [29]). These cultural attributes, coupled with a slightly unionized setting, offer a noteworthy example of how a diverse workforce evaluates direct formal and informal voice opportunities.Background to the studyEmployee voice has a vital role in the HRM discipline in terms of assuring fairness and providing opportunities for employees to have a say in workplace issues and to contribute to decision-making (Gollan & Wilkinson, [37]; Boxall & Purcell, [16]; Wilkinson & Fay, [96]). In addition to HRM, management and the workforce are other key factors responsible for ensuring the effective functioning of employee voice systems in non-unionized work environments (Gollan, [35]). Ideally, line managers should see the potential benefits of having voice systems in the workplace; they should provide opportunities for employees to channel their concerns and dissatisfaction and to contribute their ideas and suggestions. In return, employees should evaluate these opportunities positively and make use of them. As for senior managers, they should listen to employee concerns and take action. Adopting a social exchange lens, we can assume that a reciprocal relationship develops during the exchange between employees and management. Empirical research supports this view. When management provides EVOs, employees are encouraged to have more positive attitudes toward management (Cox, Zagelmeyer, & Marchington, [23]; Holland, Pyman, Cooper, & Teicher, [47]). Supporting open communication and establishing trust have been found to be antecedents for maintaining constructive relationships with employees (Searle & Dietz, [82]; Holland, [45]). If employees' trust in senior management is high and if they have a positive relationship with their superiors, they will be more willing to contribute to decision-making (Dietz & Fortin, [24]; Rees, Alfes, & Gatenby, [76]; Kougiannou, Redman, & Dietz, [54]). However, what happens in a low-trust environment and how this environment interacts with demographic diversity is yet to be explored.In earlier research, attention has focused on the 'definition, meaning and conceptualization' of voice and has pointed to the 'diverse organizational forms and breadth and depth of practice' (Kaufman, [51], p. 17). Recent literature establishes that multiple channels for voice (both direct and indirect) are more effective than a single channel (Pyman, Cooper, Teicher, & Holland, [74]; Purcell & Georgiadis, [72]; Wilkinson, Townsend, & Burgess, [97]; Holland, [45]). To improve employee voice effectiveness, it is equally important to examine how employees evaluate voice offerings in their organizations (Purcell, Kinnie, Hutchinson, Rayton, & Swart, [73]). Benson and Brown ([11], p. 82) recognize that it will be the 'employees' perceptions of voice, rather than the existence or features of a voice mechanism, that will determine whether employees will try to voice their concerns to management, or remain silent and/or exit the organization'. Boxall and Purcell ([16]) suggest there is always a demand for voice, but others argue that employee expectations of EVOs and their assessment of the EVOs remain a concern (Freeman, Boxall, & Hayney, [32]; Allen, [ 3]).Diversity – in terms of ethnicity, age, gender, personality, educational background, and sexual orientation – is increasingly influencing the mix of HRM systems used in organizations. Global demographic trends and immigration mean that today's workforce is considerably more diverse than before (Barak, [ 5]). According to a United Nations (UN) report, a major demographic trend in the twenty-first century that is going to affect workplaces around the world is the rapidly aging world population (United Nations, [89]). Already in many Western countries, older employees are staying in the workforce longer, working alongside younger generations (Greene, [39]). We also observe more women entering the workforce and assuming high-level positions (United Nations, [90]). Diversity is acknowledged in the literature as a source of creativity and innovation that can aid organizations in their quest to become more competitive (Bassett-Jones, [ 8]). On the other hand, it is also accepted that there will be clashes between these groups of employees as a result of diverse work-related attitudes, behaviors, and needs. Managing this 'paradoxical nature of diversity' (Bassett-Jones, [ 8], p. 169) requires HRM to craft its subsystems carefully.Exclusion from work-related opportunities, including withholding vs. sharing information, is a major concern for employees who are seen as a part of a minority group (Barak, [ 5]), and the result is likely to be undesirable workplace attitudes and behaviors. For organizations to derive the full benefit of employee participation, practices must be inclusive if they are to satisfy the needs of those employees for whom they are designed (Townsend et al., [88]). Yet most commonly used voice systems are designed for a homogeneous workforce, so individual employee differences are not taken into account (Bell, Özbilgin, Beauregard, & Sürgevil, [10]; Syed, [86]). Given the diverse workforce of today's organizations, it is reasonable to expect that employees have varied attitudes to and perceptions of EVOs. This distinction will be even more apparent in workplaces in the accommodation industry, where high levels of diversity in terms of nationality, sociocultural background, sexual orientation, and age have become the norm.Employers have a choice as to whether or not they offer formal and/or informal EVOs in non-unionized work environments. By the same token, employees have a choice about whether to take advantage of such opportunities (Morrison, [63]; Kaufman, [52]). Some employees choose not to make use of voice opportunities and intentionally refrain from expressing their ideas and opinions (Van Dyne, Ang, & Botero, [92]). Sometimes, however, certain groups of employees are muted by others, so their voices are never heard (Meares, Oetzel, Torres, Derkacs, & Ginossar, [62]). When ignored, suppressed, or silenced, the voices of these employee groups will be missing in the decision-making processes of the organization (Syed, [86]). Even worse, if management prefers some voices over others, this can have deadly consequences in circumstances where human safety is involved (Wilkinson, Townsend, Graham, & Muurlink, [98]). According to Ferdman and Deane ([31]), effective management of diversity makes it possible for the workforce to perform to its full potential, and HRM policies should ensure that all parties represented in the workforce feel included. Based on the aforementioned assessments, the present study reviews the interactions of employee demographics and trust in employer with regard to employee voice.Key conceptsEmployee voiceThe concept of voice is not new, but it has received increasing attention in the last two decades. The term was first defined by Hirschman in 1970 to describe customers expressing their dissatisfaction with an organization. According to his Exit-Voice-Loyalty model, in the context of work relations, employees who are dissatisfied with a situation will either exit the relationship or, if they are loyal to the organization, they will stay and voice their dissatisfaction. Hirschman viewed the voice option as 'any attempt at all to change, rather than to escape from an objectionable state of affairs' (Hirschman, [44], p. 30). Freeman and Medoff ([33]) later introduced the concept of voice in the literature on employment relations, suggesting that it was to the benefit of both the employee and the employer to have a voice at the workplace and those unions were the best intermediary for this cause. As union representation declined in the Western world, new forms of direct voice appeared (Bryson, [18]; Haynes, [42]; Boxall, Haynes, & Macky, [15]).A recurring question raised by scholars is why employers even bother with employee voice (Dundon, Wilkinson, Marchington, & Ackers, [27]; Purcell & Georgiadis, [72]). Various motives have been put forward in different disciplines, including improved employee attitudes and performance in the HRM literature, decision-making and establishing democracy at the workplace in the industrial democracy literature, providing employees with power and control in the IR literature, and job redesign in the OB literature (Wilkinson & Fay, [96]). Since the coining of the term voice, the scope of providing opportunities for employees to voice their ideas has extended beyond the goals of eliminating employee dissatisfaction and expression of collective action in the form of unions. It now includes broader and longer-term goals such as demonstrating mutuality and co-operative relations (Dundon et al., [27]), inspiring employee participation in decision-making, and improving business performance (Boxall & Purcell, [16]; McCabe & Lewin, [60]; Pyman et al., [74]).Despite the substantiated positive outcomes of EVO, not all organizations bother to make an effort to increase employee voice. For example, in environments where the level of participation is high, voice can be considered beneficial for service customization (e.g. frontline hotel employees); but in environments where the level of control is high and where there is pressure to keep costs low (e.g. fast food restaurants), voice can be undesirable (Bowen & Lawler, [14]). Organizations that have an internal labor market orientation and those that are not sensitive to diversity issues can be content with low levels of employee voice (Bassett-Jones, [ 8]). If employees overestimate the power of voice and increase the level of voice above the desired levels, these can be regarded as disruptive (Mowbray et al., [65]), and the results can be detrimental to those employees in the form of negative performance appraisals or even removal from the workforce (Burris, Detert, & Romney, [20]).The level of power that organizations give their employees, along with opportunities that are offered in the form of individual vs. collective and formal vs. informal voice, varies across, and within organizations (Kaufman, [52]). The variation makes it difficult to define voice and to specify which workplace practices fall within the scope of the concept (Purcell & Georgiadis, [72]). In the HRM literature, employee voice is often used synonymously with employee involvement, participation, and engagement (Gollan et al., [36]; Mowbray et al., [65]). In the employee involvement literature, employee access to information, knowledge, power, and rewards is regarded as intertwined with voice practices (Kaufman, [52]). The capacity of employees to participate in decision-making using formal voice systems has become a major component of voice in HRM. While the HRM literature focuses on the examination and improvement of formal voice systems to achieve higher organizational performance, scholars in the OB field often view voice as employee perceptions and behaviors. Hence, voice in the OB literature is seen as employees' informal and upward discretionary communication behavior 'to persons who might be able to take appropriate action, with intent to bring about improvement or change' (Morrison, [64], p. 174). Barry and Wilkinson ([ 6]), on the other hand, view this as a managerial approach that is focused on pro-social behavior of employees and as a limited understanding of the concept.Mowbray et al. ([65]) present a three-stage conceptual model where voice behavior and a voice system operate concurrently within an organization. For the present research, we based our conceptualization of voice on this integrative model of employee voice and management–employee interaction. We defined EVOs as opportunities provided within an organization that are designed to address employee dissatisfaction and encourage pro-social behavior and positive perceptions of justice through formal and informal channels, using multiple mechanisms that have the potential to improve employee and organizational performance. Mowbray et al. ([65]) suggest that combining elements from HRM and OB allows researchers to view the concept of voice from a wider angle and enables them to explore the role of other factors such as leadership and leader–member exchange or, as in our research, trust in the employer, since this factor underlies all the others. Voice mechanisms can include a wide range of practices that foster the mutual sharing of concerns, information, and knowledge as well as employee contributions to decision-making on workplace issues. Within this broad definition, formalized practices of employee voice can consist of grievance processes, self-managed teams, and empowerment by the supervisor, while informal practices could be face-to-face discussions, one-on-one meetings, and open-door policies. Particularly in workplace environments such as those in the accommodation industry, where managers and the employees often work side by side, it is likely that formal and informal systems will be used together and complement each other (Townsend et al., [88]).Trust in the employerTrust plays an important role in shaping cooperative behavior and reducing the possibility of conflict, and it is a strong predictor of organizationally important outcome variables, such as commitment and citizenship behavior (Wong, Ngo, & Wong, [99]). Multiple definitions of trust exist in diverse disciplines. In a discussion on trust, Good ([38], p. 33) maintained that it is 'based on an individual's theory as to how another person will perform on some future occasion, as a function of that target person's current and previous claims, either implicit or explicit, as to how they will behave'. In an influential definition in the OB literature, trust is posited to be an outgrowth of one party's willingness to be vulnerable to the actions of another whose actions cannot be monitored or controlled by developing a belief in trustee's ability, benevolence, and integrity (Mayer, Davis, & Schoorman, [59]). Soon after this formulation, the idea that faith in the predictability of a trustee emerged as an additional antecedent (see Dietz & Hartog, [25]). As this compiled definition suggests, the perception of trustworthiness of another party depends largely on the more susceptible party's belief in deliberations on all four components. Regardless of the social, civic, or business relationships in which trustworthiness is considered, trust emanates from economic and social exchanges at the individual and/or organizational level.For a trustee, there are different levels of intra-organizational trust, including calculus (a 'rational choice' with an economic exchange perspective), knowledge (based on prior predictability), relational (derived from repeated interaction and shared affection), and identification-based (confidence in convergence of interests). These levels can be achieved over time by the trustee through the quality of the relationship (Rousseau, Sitkin, & Burt, [80]; Dietz & Hartog, [25]). Although trust has been shown to be a key indicator in various studies, attempts to differentiate between trust in the employer and trust in supervisors are rare. Tan and Tan ([87]) found that trust in a supervisor emerges from the day-to-day interactions between the immediate supervisor and the employee, whereas trust in management involves relationships among a variety of constituent groups in the organization. In a similar vein, Shockley-Zalabak, Ellis, and Winograd ([83]) suggest that trust in an employer is tied to positive expectations that individuals have about the intent and the behaviors of multiple organizational members based on organizational roles, relationships, experiences, and interdependencies. An upward spiral of trust in the employer, however, can be undermined by perceptions of psychological contract violation in reciprocal exchanges (Robinson & Rousseau, [78]).Social exchange theory (Blau, [12]) proposes that when one party provides benefits to the other, the other party becomes obliged to reciprocate by returning the favor. Employees need to trust not only the process but also the management before they engage in a voice system (Dietz & Fortin, [24]). In the event of low trust, in place of social exchange between employee and employer, economic exchange will prevail, which may cause employees to choose to remain silent (Gao, Janssen, & Shi, [34]). Management responsiveness and managerial sincerity are critical components of employee engagement in voice systems (Boxall & Purcell, [16]). Therefore, within this reciprocal exchange, trust in senior management and, to a lesser extent, the relationship with the line management become key factors in attaining these positive work-related outcomes (Farndale, Van Ruiten, Kelliher, & Hope-Hailey, [30]; Rees et al., [76]). Direct voice practices such as regular face-to-face meetings between employees and senior management are found to be the most effective in building trust in management (Holland, Cooper, Pyman, & Teicher, [46]). However, as suggested by Inelmen, Zeytinoglu, and Uygur ([49]), trust building practices between managers and employees should be further investigated with a perspective that takes diversity to the forefront.Demographic diversityThere is a persistent call in the literature for research on employee evaluations of employee voice systems (Purcell et al., [73]). In order to better understand employee evaluations of HRM policies and practices, it is argued that, employee demographics need to be taken into account (Edgar & Geare, [28]). Empirical studies show that a range of employee characteristics (e.g. age, education, gender, negative affectivity) influence employee perceptions of voice (Benson & Brown, [11]). The underlying assumption is that individual differences determine the habits, skills, and abilities of employees and, in return, these influence their perceptions and voice behavior (Botero, [13]). Lawrence ([56], p. 5) identifies three groups of attributes that define employee demographics that may shed light on 'the black-box of organizational demography': immutable characteristics such as age, gender, and ethnicity; an individual's relationship with their organization, such as organizational tenure or functional areas; and an individual's position in society, such as marital status.A few studies do consider demographic variables in the employee voice literature. One study using data from the UK and the USA found that organizational tenure moderates the relationship between voice and intention to remain (Avery, McKay, Wilson, Volpone, & Killham, [ 4]). In a study conducted among nurses, variations were found between age cohorts on their evaluation of employee voice (Palumbo, McIntosh, Rambur, & Naud, [70]). Citing empirical studies, Morrison ([63]) contends that ethnic minority status might lead to less engagement in voice behavior. Zhang ([100]) examined gender differences in upward influence tactics used by employees on their direct supervisor in a Dutch hotel setting and determined that there were certain gender differences in style – males, for example, used more hard-influence tactics than their female colleagues.Another form of demographic diversity emerges from generational differences (Ng, Lyons, & Schweitzer, [66]). According to developmental theories, the particular set of historical and cultural conditions that generations experience helps distinguish one generation from the next, leading to unique patterns of behavior based on shared experiences (Hess & Jepsen, [43]). Thus, employees from the same generation are likely to adopt similar norms, values, and attitudes toward work (Chen & Choi, [22]). As the above-mentioned UN report ([89]) indicated, in the past, generational mixing was rare, and employees from different age groups were usually separated by the fact that they were performing different components of the job. It was common to find middle management positions occupied by those with seniority, while lower-level jobs – often non-managerial – were populated by new entrants. Today, however, one often finds Baby Boomers, Generation Xers, and Millennials applying for the same positions and ending up working side by side in the accommodation industry (Gursoy, Maier, & Chi, [40]).Contextual backgroundSince the 1980s, tourism has become a key element of the Turkish economy; its contribution reached USD 34.3 billion in 2014, approximately 4% of the GDP (Republic of Turkey Ministry of Culture & Tourism [77]). Turkey was the sixth most visited country in the world, with 39.8 million visitors, a quarter of whom preferred Istanbul as their ultimate destination (United Nations World Tourism Organisation, [91]). Istanbul has more than 2000 accommodation facilities in varying star categories and ownership structures that serve a wide range of customer segments.Contextual factors in the external environment of an organization (e.g. the regulatory environment, labor market conditions, sociocultural and economic variables), together with organization-specific variables (e.g. industry, ownership, size and use of technology), make a difference in the types and forms of EVOs that are used in an organization (Kaufman, [52]; Boxall & Purcell, [16]). Such factors need to be taken into consideration, including the unique characteristics of each country setting and industry. Turkey's culture displays a high power distance between employees and managers as well as high in-group collectivism (i.e. the amount of loyalty and pride expressed about one's organization or family) (Kabasakal & Bodur, [50]). In this cultural environment, abiding by the norms of the group and harmony is emphasized, and thus, the use of voice mechanisms individually is delimited by its nature.The practice of ignoring certain socio-demographic characteristics is also important in understanding the use of voice mechanisms, even when many different ethnic groups live together within the borders of the country. Until recent times, the Republic of Turkey could have been described as 'a state with an anti-ethnic regime' in much the same way France was known (Aktürk, [ 2], p. 119). This state policy had a lasting effect, and for most people, ethnicity is still something that is not openly discussed. Additionally, because sexual orientation is still a sensitive topic, it is often self-selectively omitted by lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) employees to avoid workplace discrimination (Ozturk, [69]). This omission, in effect, often leads to silence about sexual identities that are other than what is readily observable.Boxall and Purcell ([16]) argue that industries where skill requirements are relatively low and employee turnover is high (a picture that reflects the accommodation industry), voice practices are likely to remain basic and dependent on an individual manager's approach. Some employees in the accommodation industry workforce hold low-skilled operational jobs, while others have supervisory and managerial positions, for which formal education is required (Aksu & Köksal, [ 1]). Education level is therefore a variable that deserves further attention. Higher levels of education can equip employees with additional ways of expressing their concerns and complaints, leading to more frequent use of EVOs.In the accommodation industry, occupational segregation by gender, both vertical and horizontal, puts females at a disadvantage for promotion opportunities and access to higher earnings (Campos-Soria, Marchante-Mera, & Ropero-García, [21]; Pinar, McCuddy, Birkan, & Kozak, [71]). In their study of Turkish female employees in the accommodation industry, where 50% of the respondents had a university degree and 90% were under 35 years of age, Okumus, Sariisik, and Naipaul ([67]) concluded that educated women find better employment opportunities in the accommodation industry than in other industries. They contend that female employees choose the accommodation industry because of better working conditions and flexibility. However, advancing to higher positions in the industry frequently requires long years of tenure, which is difficult for female employees to achieve. In Turkey's collectivistic society, family obligations tend to prevent women from working many years in the same workplace, and in this setting, when they do gain tenure, moving up the career ladder to higher positions is only achievable through formal education.MethodSample and data collectionThe unit of analysis in this investigation was hotel employees. The sample consisted of 37 hotels, selected by a quota sampling technique based on star categories. These hotels were selected randomly from a list of 247 hotels obtained from the Hotels Association of Turkey (the largest hotelier association in the research context which assisted the research team in getting the hotels to take part) using the following procedure: ( 1) the hotels and their star categories were entered into SPSS 22; ( 2) the weight of each star category was calculated; ( 3) so as to match the percentage of the hotels in the list, the corresponding number of hotels was determined for each star category; as a result six five-star, 17 four-star, seven three-star, and seven boutique hotels were selected using the program's randomization option; in a few cases where selected hotels declined, randomly selected hotel from the same star category list was approached as a substitute.After confirming the participation of hotels, a second sampling process – this one for selection of employees – was instituted. As the total number of employees for each hotel was not available on the list, bed capacity was used as an indicator of employee numbers for each star category. Non-managerial employee numbers were estimated in accordance with the employee multiplier scores calculated by Olali, Korzay, and Yavuzer ([68]). The resulting quota for each hotel category was thus determined as 25% of non-management employees.Nine research assistants were employed to deliver and collect questionnaires in self-sealed envelopes to ensure confidentiality. The questionnaires were distributed to employees who volunteered until the predetermined quota for each hotel had been reached (total N = 707). According to data collected from the HRM departments of 37 hotels, the total number of non-managerial employees was 2699. Therefore, our sample represented 26.2% of the target population, which was deemed satisfactory for analysis. With regard to the job titles of the respondents, there was an uneven distribution, as expected. In the accommodation industry, service continues around the clock in three shifts, and most of the jobs are in what is called the 'front of the house' category: front office, concierge, health club, housekeeping, and service employees, and so on, constituting 67.9% of the sample. The back office employees such as those in HRs, sales and marketing, and information technology (constituting another 32.1%) are not often in contact with guests.The demographic profile of the total sample is displayed in Table 1. Males are a clear majority (68.4%), and although females are slightly overrepresented in comparison to their percentage in Turkey's workforce (31.6%), this figure is not surprising, considering females' general preference for the industry. With regard to marital status, there is an almost even distribution in the single/divorced category (47.9%) and the married/cohabitating category (52.1%). A similar breakdown exists for the education level distribution. As the sample was highly diverse in terms of how long the employees had worked at the hotel, it was deemed suitable to group them in terms of their tenure, measured in months, based on the quartiles that were calculated to cluster employees with similar tenure. Finally, the respondents were grouped as Baby Boomers, Generation Xers and Millennials, according to their date of birth, as suggested by Gursoy et al. ([40]).Table 1. Demographic profile of respondents. 	N*	Percentage	Min/Max	Mean	SDBiological sex	 	 	 	 	 Female	223	31.6	 	 	 Male	482	68.4	 	 	 Total	705	100	 	 	 Marital status	 	 	 	 	 Married or Cohabitating	336	47.9	 	 	 Single or Divorced	365	52.1	 	 	 Total	701	100	 	 	 Education	 	 	 	 	 Primary and Middle School	187	26.4	 	 	 Secondary School	256	36.2	 	 	 Tertiary Education**	264	37.4	 	 	 Total	707	100	 	 	 Generation	 	 	Date of Birth	Age	 Millennials	392	55.4	1982/1996	22.26	3.35Generation Xers	259	36.6	1966/1981	36.95	4.23Baby Boomers	56	8.0	1946/1965	52.08	4.51Total	707	100	 	31.44	8.74Tenure in the hotel	 	 	Months	 	 First Quartile	180	25.5	1/10	5.12	3.32Second Quartile	175	24.8	11/24	16.90	5.13Third Quartile	203	28.7	25/60	44.82	11.22Fourth Quartile	149	21.1	61/482	124.94	65.99Total	707	100	 	43.88	53.181 The number in each subcategory may not tally to 707 due to missing data2 Vocational school, undergraduate and graduate degrees.MeasuresEmployee voice opportunitiesUnlike studies that measure behavior or intentions of voice behavior, the present research aimed to measure employee evaluations of voice opportunities. Therefore, Van Dyne and LePine's ([93]) frequently used six-item scale that measures employee behavior was not suitable for the study. Bryson ([18]) used three items (on regular meetings, briefing groups, and problem-solving groups) and Farndale et al. ([30]) used two items (on opportunities for commenting on proposed changes and responding to suggestions) to measure employee perceptions of voice. However, these scales were also unsuitable for our study, as they were too narrow to measure our broad conceptualization of EVO. Our definition of EVO, guided by the conceptualizations of Boxall and Purcell ([16]), Townsend et al. ([88]) and Mowbray et al. ([65]), is provided in the Key Concepts section.In order to fully measure this conceptualization, seven questions on upward/downward flows and informal/formal channels were directed to non-managerial employees. The formal mechanisms included contentment with empowerment by the supervisor (the level of delegation), sharing of strategies (the level of communication of plans and targets), and reward systems (the level of compensation and benefits). The less formal mechanisms included questions about fulfillment, along with items on opportunities for contributing to decision processes (having a say on your results), sharing of employee opinions and concerns (freely expressing ideas and feelings), and asking for changes in results (occasions for one-to-one meetings). For the purpose of incorporating an inclusiveness perspective, a question about prejudice in processes (bias-free implementation of policies) was added (see Table 2). EVO was measured by items using a Likert-type scale ranging from '1 = very low' to '5 = very high'.Table 2. EVO Scale. 	EVO item	QuestionsFormal	Empowerment	What is the level of delegation in your hotel?Sharing of Strategies	To what extent are you informed of your hotel's plans and targets?Reward Systems	To what extent are you content with compensation and benefits?Informal	Decision processes	To what extent do you have a say in the determination of your results?Employee opinions and concerns	To what extent can you express your ideas and feelings to the employer?Changes in results	To what extent can you demand changes in your results?Inclusiveness	To what extent are policies applied on a bias-free basis?To assess the scale's structure, an exploratory factor analysis was conducted on the items, which pointed to an acceptable fit (KMO = .81; Bartlett's Sphericity = 984.00, p < .001). An examination of the component matrix with Varimax rotation showed a two-factor solution where all factor loadings were greater than.500. The EVO scale was developed to assess employees' evaluations of both formal and informal mechanisms, and the factor structure supported the theoretical underpinnings since the items fit the corresponding factors. The Cronbach's alpha for this scale showed acceptable reliability, measured for both females and males (? = .77 and ? = .76, respectively).Trust in the EmployerRobinson and Rousseau's ([78]) Trust in Employer Scale (TES) was employed to measure employees' perception of their employer's good intentions and trustworthiness. Some items were reverse-scored, as suggested by the scale developers. The Cronbach's alpha for the scale showed good reliability levels, measured independently, again for both females and males (? = .79 and ? = .80, respectively). TES uses items that employ a Likert-type scale ranging from '1 = strongly disagree' to '5 = strongly agree'. To create scores for the variables, responses to the items for the scales employed (EVO and TES) were totaled to create independent aggregate scores.Demographic variablesIn line with the prior literature, we chose to examine the effects of generational differences, biological sex, education, and tenure for demographic diversity. Ethnicity and sexual orientation were deliberately excluded from the present study, as explained in the Contextual Background section. Marital status was included as a control variable in the analysis.ResultsTo assess systematic differences in the sample, preliminary analyses were conducted. An independent samples t-test revealed no significant difference between males and females on their evaluation of EVO (p > .10). Similarly, a one-way ANOVA comparison of the employees' generation on EVO showed no significant differences (p > .10). Therefore, we concluded there was no reason to expect systematic differences resulting solely from the biological sex or the generation of the respondents. In regard to generational clusters, such differences as more senior workers having longer tenure and younger generations being more educated were in line with expectations and did not require separate treatment. However, it is important to note that female respondents were relatively more educated (Mfemale = 2.35, Mmale = 2.00; ?2 = 53.22), while male respondents had longer average tenure than females (Mfemale = 2.45, Mmale = 4.18; ?2 = 24.43). Both these differences were statistically significant (p < .001), so we decided to split the respondents into two sub-samples according to biological sex to further investigate these factors.Means, standard deviations and intercorrelations among the variables, calculated separately for male and female sub-samples, are presented in Tables 3 and 4. As can be seen by matching up the intercorrelations, there were several differences between the sub-samples. The most notable differences appeared between females' relatively weak but significant correlations (p < .10) between evaluations of EVO and education level (r = ?.122) and tenure in the hotel (r = .121). In contrast, males' evaluations did not correlate with these factors and did not seem to be influenced by them (p > .10). Similarly, female trust in the employer was significantly and negatively correlated with education level (r = ?.135, p < .10), whereas males' education level did not correlate to the same extent, nor was the relationship significant (r = ?.074, p > .10).Table 3. Descriptives and correlation analyses for male employees (n = 482). 	Mean (SD)	1	2	3	4	51. Education level	2.00 (.76)	 	 	 	 	 2. Tenure	2.59 (1.08)	?.224***	 	 	 	 3. Generation	1.58 (.65)	?.378***	.443***	 	 	 4. Trust in employer	3.69 (.74)	?.074	.012	.039	(.79)	 5. EVO	23.68 (4.95)	.039	.060	.055	.496***	(.76)3 Note: Correlations significant at (*).10, (**).01, and (***).001 levels. The figures in parentheses at the diagonal are Cronbach's alpha reliabilities of the scales.Table 4. Descriptives and correlation analyses for female employees (n = 223). 	Mean (SD)	1	2	3	4	51. Education level	2.35 (.82)	 	 	 	 	 2. Tenure in the hotel	2.16 (1.03)	?.228**	 	 	 	 3. Generation	1.40 (.58)	?.614***	.403***	 	 	 4. Trust in employer	3.71 (.73)	?.135*	.008	.061	(.80)	 5. EVO	23.51 (5.13)	?.122*	.121*	?.085	.446***	(.77)4 Note: Correlations significant at (*).10, (**).01, and (***).001 levels. The figures in parentheses at the diagonal are Cronbach's alpha reliabilities of the scales.To investigate the depth and breadth of the influence of the variables on male and female evaluations of EVO, two separate regression analyses were conducted (see Table 5). The same model was employed for each analysis. Marital status served as a control variable and was found to have no effect. Tenure and education level, which were added to the analysis as potential factors, emerged as variables with explanatory value. Although it is uncommon in the literature originating from Western countries, the finding is in accordance with the specific research context.Table 5. Regression analysis models for EVO as a function of biological sex. 	Males (n?=?482)	Females (n?=?223)Marital status	?.033 (?.324;.511)	?.012 (?.133;.865)Education level	.098** (.629;.291)	.184** (1.174;.531)Tenure in the hotel	?.018 (?.081;.207)	.143** (.713;.350)Generation	.104* (.773;.406)	?.004 (?.034;.829)Trust in employer	.493*** (3.241;.275)	.470*** (3.267;.461)Overall Model F	29.26***	11.37***Adj. R2	.243	.2165 Note: In each cell, standardized regression coefficients are reported together with unstandardized coefficients and standard errors, which are shown in parentheses. The marked figures were statistically significant at (*).10, (**).05, and (***).001 levels. Marital status (Dummy variable: 0 = Not married, 1 = Married). Education level (1 = Primary and Middle School; 2 = Secondary School, 3 = Tertiary). Tenure in the hotel (1 = First quartile, 2 = Second quartile, 3 = Third quartile, 4 = Fourth quartile). Generation (1 = Millennials, 2 = Generation Xers, 3 = Baby Boomers). For the regressions, Durbin–Watson test scores were 1.76 and 1.83, respectively, and VIFs ranged between 1.01 and 1.90 for all variables that were included.Education levels and trust in the employer were key determinants in both sub-samples, but tenure and generation emerged as differentiating variables among biological sex groups. In the case of male employees, evaluations of EVO were determined primarily by trust in the employer and only modestly by education. Generation had a moderate impact (BETA = .104, p < .10), whereas tenure in the hotel had a negligible and statistically insignificant influence on male employees' evaluations of EVO (BETA = ?.018). These variables explained 24% of the variability in the assessment made by male employees. It is not surprising to find a strong connection between employees' level of trust (BETA = .493, p < .001) and their evaluation of EVOs. Higher levels of education combined with optimistic trust in the employer resulted in a more positive assessment of voice opportunities. Among male employees, older generations' evaluations of EVOs were more positive than those of the younger groups.In the case of females, the story is somewhat different: while trust in the employer and education had sizable influences, generation had no impact (BETA = ?.004). Instead of generational differences, tenure in the hotel showed a moderate effect for female employees impact (BETA = .143, p < .05), with trust in the employer, education, and tenure accounting for 21% of variability (see Table 5). In contrast to the negative correlation between education and EVOs that was found for female employees, in the regression analysis, high levels of education contributed positively to predict EVOs. This result may be attributable to increased levels of trust in the employers who endorse EVOs, especially in the case of highly educated females (BETA = .184, p < .05). Finally, the significant influence of tenure is rather telling when combined with higher levels of education among females. Generation did not produce a significant difference for this group, but more education and longer tenure seemed to lead to higher assessments of their EVOs.In sum, the results of the present study show that EVOs are evaluated similarly by females and males to a certain extent, because trust in the employer and employee education level are important for both. As the levels of these two variables increased, the propensity for both groups of employees' to use opportunities for voice was amplified. Our results also add to studies that suggest employee evaluations are also influenced by their background. For female employees, hard-gained tenure was a determinant in their assessment of voice opportunities in the workplace. On the other hand, in line with the local culture, males and older employees may feel more empowered to voice complaints or dissatisfaction. The underpinnings and implications of these results are discussed in the following section.Discussion and conclusionWe investigated the effects of demographic diversity and the influences of trust on employee assessment of voice opportunities. The questions we posed were designed to determine the influence of selected demographic variables on evaluations of EVOs, and we have shown that there are differences between hotel employee groups in terms of their assessment of the voice opportunities provided by employer. To achieve the aims of the study, an inclusive perspective was developed where demographic diversity principles were integrated into EVOs. We also tackled the issue with reference to a variable that has scarcely been investigated in the context of employee voice: trust in the employer. A particular strength of our study is the integration of divergent conceptualizations of voice and trust derived from the HRM and OB disciplines, which enabled us to bring together the employee's choice as displayed by voice behavior and the management's choice of voice opportunities. Mowbray et al.'s ([65]) integrative model posits that voice system design and voice behavior occur simultaneously in an organization. In line with their model, we developed a broad definition of EVO that delineates informal (mostly as conceptualized in the OB discipline) and formal channels (elaborated in HRM discipline); we used multiple mechanisms to cover the most important aspects of attaining high employee and organizational performance. This approach has proved to be fruitful in capturing a large proportion of the opportunities that are commonly provided by employers. Moreover, this novel conceptualization of EVO adds to the literature by expanding the definition of voice.Corroborating the work of researchers such as Farndale et al. ([30]) and Rees et al. ([76]), the present study shows that the ability or inability of non-managerial employees to trust carries considerable weight in their assessment of their potential to express their ideas, opinions, and dissatisfaction through common voice mechanisms. Given the power asymmetry between the employer and employee, as recognized in the employee relations literature (Barry & Wilkinson, [ 6]), providing formal and informal opportunities for employees to speak up is necessary. In these slightly unionized settings where indirect mechanisms are seldom used, these formal and informal opportunities are of more value to organizations in order for employers to reap the benefits of voice behaviors and to get closer to something akin to workplace democracy. However, several studies (e.g. Van Dyne et al., [92]; Meares et al., [62]; Wilkinson et al., [98]) show that some employees do not feel safe and often choose to remain silent about problems they encounter at work. In such cases, the prevalence of trust in the employer as a key variable in attaining formal and informal voice from the employees (Boxall & Purcell, [16]) is a clear indication of its importance to employees in differentiating between levels of trust (Dietz & Hartog, [25]) and consequently to their decision to either contribute to the managerial endeavor or to resort to silence.The barrier of silence needs to be overcome before employees can be expected to contribute to decision-making (Sutton, Verginis, & Eltvik, [85]). Because silence can create a heavy burden for organizations, management should identify and tackle barriers that stem from misperceptions on the part of employees. The literature suggests that the mere existence of voice opportunities is unlikely to have the desired positive effect on work-related outcomes if groups of employees perceive these as unsatisfactory (Harlos, [41]; Farndale et al., [30]; Wilkinson et al., [97]). With this in mind, we suggest that employee surveys be reviewed for their capacity to assess satisfaction with formal and informal voice mechanisms. In cases where unmet needs of diverse demographic groups are identified, deeper examinations can be pursued through appropriate qualitative methodologies (e.g. focus groups, anonymous online groups). Such treatment might enhance much needed trust and serve as a bridge between the demand for voice and actual behavior. Therefore, we recommend that employee voice should be complemented by trust-building human resource policies targeting different demographic groups. We maintain that such efforts will not be an extravagance.As is evidenced by a long strand of research (Mayer et al., [59]; Schoorman, Mayer, & Davis, [81]), belief in the ability, benevolence, integrity, and predictability (see Dietz & Hartog, [25]) of the trustee is a key factor in building employee trust. Nevertheless, these four factors can have different impacts on the evaluation of EVOs. In a cross-cultural comparison, Branzei, Vertinsky, and Camp ([17]) found that in individualistic cultures, people tend to develop trust on the basis of perceived ability and integrity, whereas in collectivist cultures, trusting choices depend to a greater extent on predictable and benevolent interactions. Thus, it can be suggested that employees who are immersed in the collectivistic national context would need a benevolent and predictable type of leadership, whereas individualistically oriented ones would develop trust in leaders who surpass others in ability and integrity (Walumbwa & Schaubroeck, [94]).The World Values Survey revealed that Turkey is a country marked by a low level of interpersonal trust, and between the years of 1990–2012 there has been no major change in this area (Esmer, [29]), indicating that the state of interpersonal trust is not transitory, and it is, in fact, key to understanding its society's members. With unresolved social conflicts in the country, individuals may find it hard to trust anyone outside their own kin or group. In such a context, the belief component of trust as an intra-organizational phenomenon, i.e. that a person can be certain that the other party (the superior) will act benevolently and predictably (Dietz & Hartog, [25]) is critical in an employee's final choice to speak up or not. As there is very little that can be done to change the personality of a manager (Walumbwa & Schaubroeck, [94]), organizations in similar contexts might choose to screen candidates for managerial positions for qualities of goodwill, tolerance, and stability, along with task orientation. Additionally, we found that besides sources of trust, different forms of demographic diversity can also help to explain an employee's decision to engage (or not) in sharing ideas and concerns with their employer.There is a paucity of empirical work focusing on diversity in the voice literature. Syed ([86]), in his conceptual paper about missing voices in organizations, recognizes diversity management as the missing lens in the employee voice literature. To derive the full benefits of diversity, he proposes adding diversity management to the existing paradigms of IR, OB, HRM, and political science in the employee voice literature. In order to introduce a diversity perspective into employee voice management, Greene ([39]) questions conventional voice mechanisms and suggests updating those mechanisms to address the needs of the current profile of the workforce (taking into account part-time employees, for example).Diversity management practices such as intra-organization diversity networks and equality promotion councils are recommended by Syed ([86]) with a view to lessening discrimination, improving performance, and deriving benefit from a diverse workforce. Corporations that are successful in managing diversity have started to support employee mentoring and networking programs (Madera, [57]). Employee resource groups (ERGs) are a form of such networking programs, and their numbers in organizations are found to be on the rise (Welbourne & McLaughlin, [95]). It is not uncommon to find attribute-based ERGs that are generation-based; the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), for instance, has groups for Millennials and Veterans (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, [58]) and American Express has a group for those over the age of 40 (Douglas, [26]). In ERGs, members meet to share information and provide feedback on strategic issues in a safe environment (McGrath & Sparks, [61]). For employees, these groups can create a sense of inclusion, provide informal mentoring and serve human resource goals of recruitment and retention (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, [58]). Similar suggestions are made by Bell et al. ([10]) for LGBT groups' use of social networks and ERGs in the workplace.As developmental theories provide, shared experiences of generational groups can help predict ways of acting (Hess & Jepsen, [43]; Smola & Sutton, [84]), and it is possible to suggest that reliance on social networks may resemble same-generation groups. We therefore recommend that managers consider using customized mechanisms for employee voice, and that, in line with Gursoy et al.'s ([40]) conclusion, different generational groups should be managed differently. As a case in point, male Millennials in the present context evaluated opportunities provided for employee voice as inadequate. We offer an explanation derived from the cultural dimensions theory, according to which Turkish society's general characteristics match with a collectivistic one (Kabasakal & Bodur, [50]). In such a context, where maintaining harmony is emphasized and where the younger generations are expected to refrain from speaking up, the Millennials may be following the rule.An alternative explanation is that common formal and informal EVOs may not be sufficient for Millennials, who rely heavily on relatively informal and unstructured communication channels, such as social media. Greene ([39]) advises organizations to use social technology (e.g. websites, intranets, online discussion forums, interactive surveys, social media) as a viable alternative to commonly used employee voice mechanisms, a recommendation with which we agree, considering our findings.The above discussion, which applies mainly to male employees, does not fully hold true for females, whose tenure in the hotel where they work was the determining factor, not their generation. As can be expected in this collectivistic setting, it is generally women with academic credentials and tenure that tend to speak their mind, whereas 'disadvantaged' groups hold back, regardless of their generation group. Another possible explanation for this result could be the socialization process of females in the organization. Organizational socialization theory suggests that employees with less tenure feel they have less control than those with more experience (Humborstad & Dysvik, [48]). Because gaining tenure is particularly challenging for females, those who endure long enough may feel more entitled to voice than newer entrants. It is worth noting that tenure for females in our sample was lower than that for males, and females with less tenure were less positive about using EVOs. Since time invested in an organization is important for trust building (Schoorman et al., [81]), it might be a bridging factor between evaluations of EVOs and actual voice behavior.Several international hospitality firms that are leaders in diversity management initiatives have begun to offer programs for women in particular and networking activities for the entire workforce (Madera, [57]). Given the multiple benefits of ERGs at the individual, group and organizational levels, we advise HRM practitioners to support the establishment of such bottom-up groups and not to overlook the importance of establishing suitable operational structures. Greene ([39]), however, contends that the ability of ERGs to solve voice issues should not be overestimated, as they will be useless unless they are managed effectively and senior-level management is involved. In addition to ERGs, support programs for women, especially at the beginning of their career, may be beneficial in collectivistic country settings. We recommend that management seek voice channels that can address less tenured females' control needs over what can be discussed and decrease their hesitation to use voice (Greene, [39]).As mentioned earlier, in the present research context, higher levels of education lead to a positive evaluation of EVOs. Previous research on the accommodation industry in countries with high power distance indicates that the effects of psychological empowerment on voice behavior are weak (Raub & Robert, [75]). The present study, conducted in a high power distance society, showed that education may have a leveling effect between management and employees, paving the way for employees to voice their concerns and share their ideas as education level increases. Since there is considerable diversity in education level in the accommodation industry (Aksu & Köksal, [ 1]), this finding calls for paying particular attention to the evaluations of employees with a low level of education. We advise organizations to develop informal and formal channels that employees can relate to and use; this is particularly important for employees with a low level of education. The operational staff that has frequent direct contact with customers should be specifically targeted.It is to an organization's strategic advantage to create an environment that fosters trust and that values workforce diversity. A positive employee–employer relationship based on reciprocity and trust can be expected to promote pro-social behavior, such as using voice opportunities (Walumbwa & Schaubroeck, [94]). Social exchange theory predicts that if employers provide voice opportunities suitable for each employee group, it is likely that this will be perceived as managerial responsiveness and sincerity, and employees will show organizationally desired workplace attitudes and behaviors (Bashshur & Oc, [ 7]). Gao et al. ([34]) suggest that, in a low trust environment, economic exchange will prevail, shadowing the social exchange between employee and employer. This may lead employees to remain silent and to refrain from contributing their voice to decision-making. Accordingly, the quality of the relationship between employee and employer gains immense importance, as found in the present low-trust context. Social exchange theory thus provides a fitting framework in which to place different trust levels to describe employees' assessments of voice mechanisms. Yet, it is important to note that these evaluations are not completely immune to the effects of demographic diversity.Limitations and future researchThe present research encourages HR managers to design customized employee voice systems and suggests that managers use these mechanisms constructively. While our study provides a number of significant insights, our findings do have limitations. First, we did not measure the embeddedness or the quality of the voice mechanisms in the sample hotels. Therefore, we suggest that future research consider the attributes of voice mechanisms. Second, the generalizability of our study awaits the results of research in other settings. Our study was undertaken in a single industry in a single country; it would be beneficial to explore the same or similar issues in a wider range of industries and other countries for generalizability of our findings. Although there is surely a degree of variety in the sample in terms of cultural orientation, this was not the main focus of the study, so it was not measured, and some of the explanations were put forth with the help of the literature. Furthermore, we suggest that alternative voice mechanisms need to be empirically validated, and that further insights can be gained through mixed methods, as suggested by Greene ([39]). Finally, in the particular setting of our study, we were unable to measure the effects of ethnicity and sexual orientation, factors which could have enhanced our insights into the relationship between demographic diversity, trust in the employer, and evaluations of EVOs. For this reason, we recommend including a wider range of demographic factors in future inquiries.