Highlights•Workforce racial diversity differentially impacts an organization's corporate social responsibility performance (CSRP).•Workforce racial diversity has an inverted U-shaped relationship with a firm's financial and social performance.•Workforce racial diversity has a U-shaped relationship with the environmental performance.•Absorptive capacity and slack resources influence the relationship between racial diversity and CSRP performance.AbstractRacial diversity is considered an integral part of the business world. The extant literature has focused on the effect of racial diversity on a firm's financial performance and presented mixed findings. Building on the institutional logics lens and using a sample of 204 firms belonging to 9 industries and spread across 21 countries for a period of six years, we explore the impact of workforce racial diversity on the Corporate Social Responsibility Performance (CSRP) of a firm. In addition, we also investigate the contingency effects of a firm's absorptive capacity and slack resources on the proposed relationship. Using a seemingly unrelated regression model and accounting for endogeneity, we find that racial diversity has an inverted U-shaped relationship with a firm's financial and social performance and has a U-shaped relationship with its environmental performance. We also find significant moderating effects. Thus, we contribute to the theory and practice in the field.Graphical abstractUnlabelled ImageDownload : Download high-res image (123KB)Download : Download full-size imagePrevious articleNext articleKeywordsRacial diversityInstitutional logicsCSR performanceAbsorptive capacitySlack resources1. IntroductionChanging demographics around the world have made racial minorities an important part of the global workforce (Kim, 2006). In addition, pertinent labor and skill shortages have made business companies increasingly dependent on ethnic minority employees (Ortlieb & Sieben, 2013). Labor migration has further enhanced this diversity (United Nations Statistics Division, 2009). Although diversity is an important agenda for many organizations, we need more evidence of how diversity influences organizations (Green, Bond, Miller, & Gifford, 2018). Racial diversity is considered to generate innovation and improve the available knowledge within the organization (King et al., 2011). Furthermore, racial diversity is critical to attracting customers from other communities to the firm (Subeliani & Tsogas, 2005). In addition, the rising workforce diversity has given impetus to the enhancement of equal opportunities at work and the inclusion of ethnic minorities in equal opportunity mandates (King et al., 2011; Ortlieb & Sieben, 2013).However, the globalized world has seen a thought disruption due to populist leaders demanding “nation first” policies. In addition, countries such as Singapore, New Zealand, and Australia, which have traditionally relied on skilled immigration, have decided to curtail employment visas to foreign nationals1. However, the concerns raised by many global leaders have not received sufficient support from industry leaders. Many business leaders around the world have been discussing the benefits of a racially diverse workforce. Although the industry has presented a rosy picture of workforce racial diversity, the concerns of these global leaders are not baseless. While a few studies indicate that racially diverse communities have lower social capital and may also create more tensions in the workplace (Jonas, 2007), other studies suggest that racial diversity can have negative effects by increasing conflicts (King et al., 2011), which could potentially be harmful to organizational performance. Therefore, it is not clear whether racial diversity has a positive or negative effect on a firm's performance. This confusion is at the heart of racial discrimination in the workplace and the under-representation of racial minorities in almost all industries. In fact, many industry practitioners believe that racial diversity in the workforce is dead.1The problem is even graver in academia. A majority of the academic research on diversity has been fixated on studying either diversity practices as a part of an organization's social responsibility (Visser, Matten, Pohl, & Tolhurst, 2010) or board diversity and its influence on organizational performance (Harjoto, Laksmana, & Lee, 2015). Additionally, studies that examine workforce racial diversity (“racial diversity” hereafter) have been primarily confined to financial performance; these studies often report mixed findings (Herring, 2009). This scenario presents an inadequate and somewhat confusing picture of the benefits of racial diversity.Because the financial performance is seldom adequate to understand the health of an organization, one must examine the social and environmental performance to assess the success of an organization. Understanding Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as a form of societal governance seems to be a promising avenue of research at a time when the longstanding rules, actors, and markets that have governed the global economy appear to be increasingly in an ongoing state of crisis (Brammer, Jackson, & Matten, 2012). Therefore, to provide a holistic understanding related to racial diversity, in this study we explore the influence of racial diversity on an organization's corporate social responsibility performance (CSRP), which includes all three aspects of performance, namely, financial performance, social performance, and environmental performance (Kok, de Bakker, & Groenewegen, 2017). Racial diversity has been defined as the presence of employees from multiple racial categories (Richard, Murthi, & Ismail, 2007). To understand the influence of racial diversity on a firm's CSRP, we employ the lens of institutional logics.Institutional logic research defines institutions as formal rules and taken-for-granted cultural frameworks, cognitive schema, and routinized processes of reproduction. Moreover, institutional logic assumes that actors are motivated more by a logic of appropriateness whereby action is constrained and enabled by cultural frames, schema, and routines (Campbell, 2007). Furthermore, research in this domain clearly indicates that individuals within an organization may hold different logics (Shoham, Almor, Lee, & Ahammad, 2017). Each logic considers certain actions to be legitimate and resists actions that do not fit its norms (Mutch, 2018). Employees within an organization who hold different logics based on their identities are found to exert pressure on the organization to adopt CSR-related practices (Jackson, Doellgast, & Baccaro, 2018).Due to a history of discrimination, racial minorities adhere to logics that emphasize ethical responsibilities (Smith, Wokutch, Harrington, & Dennis, 2001). Research in this domain also suggests that racial minorities consider different aspects of CSR (Munro, 2013) and tend to make demands on the organization to adopt CSR practices (Gonzalez & Denisi, 2009). Thus, we argue that a racially diverse workforce will exert pressure on the organization to adopt CSR-related practices, as they adhere to an institutional logic that promotes ethical norms. However, the organization can choose to ignore these demands or comply with them (Dass & Parker, 1999).Although racial diversity may influence a firm's overall performance, the magnitude and direction of the effect may be different depending on the contingencies (Richard et al., 2007). The success of CSR initiatives may be dependent on the organization's ability to sense and respond to demands as well as its resource leverage (Ramachandran, 2011). The ability to sense the demands and select appropriate strategies is dependent on the absorptive capacity of the organization (Cohen & Levinthal, 2000). Research suggests that the absorptive capacity plays a critical role in achieving high environmental and financial performance (Delmas, Hoffmann, & Kuss, 2011). Furthermore, even after sensing the demands, the availability or unavailability of slack resources may influence firms' decision whether to address these types of demands (Julian & Ofori-dankwa, 2013). Slack resources are found to help an organization achieve conflicting goals (Xu, Yang, Quan, & Lu, 2015). However, the availability of slack resources may not promote CSR (Kang, Germann, & Grewal, 2016) because economic demands may take precedence over ethical demands (Subeliani & Tsogas, 2005). Therefore, in this study, we explore the moderating role of slack resources and the absorptive capacity.We use a representative sample of 204 firms that belong to 9 industries and are spread across 21 countries over a period of 6?years to explore the relationship between racial diversity and the CSRP. Using a Seemingly Unrelated Regression (SUR) model that accounts for the potential endogeneity in racial diversity, we are able to explore the relationship between racial diversity and the CSRP and these factors' contingencies. We find that whereas racial diversity (operationalized as the percentage of minorities in the workforce) has an inverted U-shaped relationship with the financial and social performance of a firm, it has a U-shaped relationship with the environmental performance of a firm, which is measured in terms of its Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. We also find significant moderating effects of the absorptive capacity and slack resources.Our study makes multiple contributions to academia and practice. First, using an institutional logics lens, we show that the impact of a racially diverse workforce on a firm's performance need not be positive or negative; rather, it is curvilinear. We find that a towering increase in racial diversity may hurt a firm's performance. As a result, we mitigate the paradoxical findings reported in the literature and answer the call for research by earlier scholars (Ali, Ng, & Kulik, 2014; Young et al., 2015). Additionally, we contribute to the literature on CSR by moving the focus from the managers to the workforce, which has been an area of concern in the literature (Larrieta-Rubín de Celis, Velasco-Balmaseda, Fernández de Bobadilla, Alonso-Almeida, & Intxaurburu-Clemente, 2015). Second, we expose two major strategic levers that may influence the organizational strategy of managing racial diversity and the corporate performance. Third, through multiple post hoc analyses, we illustrate how firms from certain industries may extract significantly higher benefits from racial diversity. Consistently, we also find that firms from developed and developing markets gain differential benefits through racial diversity. Finally, we make an important methodological contribution: we employ an SUR model framework, which allows financial, environmental, and social performance measures to be interrelated and affected by the racial diversity at the same time. Specifically, we propose a generalized framework using data from 21 countries and 9 industries to account for the endogeneity in racial diversity and to mitigate the limitations of the existing literature, which largely concentrates on a single country or single industry. Note that we investigate the impact of racial diversity in the workforce on the CSRP of a firm; this area has the most relevance to the current business world.We organize our study in the following manner. In the second section, we discuss the relevant literature and research questions. We discuss the theoretical background and explain the notion of the institutional logics in the third section. In the fourth section, we develop our hypotheses. We discuss our empirical setting and models in the fifth section, give our results in the sixth section, and conduct post hoc analysis in the seventh section. In the eight section, we expose the contributions of this study to academia and practice, followed by the study's limitations and future research directions.2. Relevant literature and research questionsVan Marrewijk (2003) argues that Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) implies a concern for profit, people, and the planet. CSR has grown in importance in recent decades. Research suggests that those organizations that undertake CSR may gain a competitive advantage and have both increased financial performance and a higher corporate reputation (Fombrun & Gardberg, 2000).There are ample studies that discuss racial diversity and performance. However, these studies primarily focus on the relationship between board diversity and specific CSR activities such as the financial performance (Arora & Dharwadkar, 2011; Bai, 2013; Ben-Amar, Chang, & McIlkenny, 2017; Chang, Oh, Park, & Jang, 2017; Coffey & Wang, 1998; Isidro & Sobral, 2015; Siciliano, 1996). Careful consideration of these studies reveals that the literature on board diversity provides us with mixed results (Miller & del Carmen Triana, 2009). Studies that focus on racial diversity and explore its impact on all three aspects of CSRP are rare.Although an organization's board is largely responsible for setting the strategic parameters within which strategic activities occur, business strategies are typically developed at the business unit level, where heterogeneity and innovation come from the diverse workforce (Stiles, 2001). Additionally, studies show that a board message of CSR and the practices that are adopted are often decoupled, hence, the practices the organization adopts are not in line with improving CSR (Boxenbaum & Jonsson, 2017). One of the primary reasons for this decoupling is found to be the prominence of economic objectives and motives over moral purposes (Subeliani & Tsogas, 2005). Individuals within an organization can create change at the organizational level by making demands on the organization (Shoham et al., 2017). Thus, individuals within an organization can ensure that there is no decoupling within the organization. Therefore, considering racial diversity at the workforce level is vital to achieving a holistic understanding of the role of racial diversity on firms' CSRP.The CSR literature has been largely manageristic in nature. Analysis of how and why particular stakeholders become salient remains underdeveloped (Jackson et al., 2018). Carroll (1991) argues that organizations can decide which stakeholder groups' demands they should address based on the legitimacy and power of these groups. Because employees may have both a legitimate voice through legal institutions and an influence on the organizational performance (Huselid, 1995), employees bear significant power and legitimacy, making them an important stakeholder group. As important stakeholders, employees may influence firms' CSRP. Employees' expectations of CSR may induce strong internal pressure on organizations (Kiron, Kruschwitz, Haanaes, Reeves, & Goh, 2013), which may force an organization to act in a socially responsible manner (Larrieta-Rubín de Celis et al., 2015). Costas and Kärreman (2013) found that employees often participated in demanding CSR activities done by the organization as a way to express their identities and ethical conscience to the organization. However, though employees are important stakeholders, the extant literature lacks an understanding of the issues related to racial diversity and CSR (Dhanesh, 2012; Rodrigo & Arenas, 2008). Researchers have been calling for studies that examine the impact of the racial diversity in the workforce on the overall CSRP of any firm (Young et al., 2015). Even those researchers who explored racial diversity and financial performance have often reported contradictory findings (Herring, 2009). Additionally, it is important to note that in the discussion to this point, the saliency of the internal demands has not been addressed.Research on institutional logics has been able to address why some organizations respond differently to the institutional pressures of CSR (Zhang & Luo, 2013). The institutional logics lens allows a researcher to highlight how the saliencies of demands within an organization gain traction (Glynn & Raffaelli, 2013). As organizations operate in a complex environment, considering institutional influences on the organization allows one to clarify the heterogeneity of the responses and the weights of certain pressures (Marano & Kostova, 2016). Furthermore, using the lens of institutional logics allows us to theorize about how norms held at the micro-level are able to impact organizational responses (Currie & Spyridonidis, 2016). In this context, the institutional logics that the organization adheres to and the institutional logics of other stakeholders may force an organization to adhere to different elements of CSR (Tan & Wang, 2011). Therefore, by drawing on the institutional logics perspective, we will be able to mitigate some of the concerns in the CSR literature. Moreover, we will also be able to explain the saliencies of the demands made by the employees.Finally, there has been an ongoing debate in the CSR literature regarding the appropriate performance metrics that one should use to understand the impact of racial diversity on the CSRP. Scholars have used different measures without providing any theoretical rationale for selecting one measure over another. For example, Richard (2000) has reported no relationship between racial diversity and financial performance. In his study, the return on equity (ROE) has been taken as a measure of performance. Because the ROE as a measure may not provide a generalized understanding (Murphy, Trailer, & Hill, 1996), the research findings may just be driven by the selection of the dependent variable rather than an actual relationship. Additionally, many scholars have relied on questionnaire-based primary measures to study the relationship between diversity and CSRP (Ciocirlan & Pettersson, 2012). Scholars argue that relying only on primary measures may not capture all of the dimensions of performance, and such measures may also be prone to single source bias and common method bias (Hult et al., 2008).Given the gap in the literature in exploring the impact of racial diversity on the overall performance of a firm, we explore two research questions in this study:1)What is the impact of the racial diversity on a firm's overall performance (CSRP)?2)What are some of the potential contingencies that may influence the proposed relationship?We rely on the “institutional logics perspective” to develop the theoretical premise of the study. In addition, we also provide both a theoretical and a practical rationale for selecting one performance measure over another. This aspect of the problem is critical, as selecting inappropriate performance measures may significantly eclipse the understanding of the relationship between the workforce racial diversity and the performance. We use the ROA as a measure of the financial performance (Murphy et al., 1996), greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions as a measure of the environmental performance (Rao & Rubin, 2002), and community (social) spending as a measure of the social performance (Epstein & Roy, 2001). We perform additional robustness checks by using alternate performance measures (such as the earnings per share for the financial performance and the total waste generated for the environmental performance) to mitigate concerns associated with earlier research. Table 1 highlights unique contributions of our study to the existing scholarship. In the next section, we discuss the theoretical background of our research.Table 1. Contributions of our study in comparison to other, similar studies in the CSR literature.Study	Workforce racial diversity	Dependent variables	Moderation	Variables for CSR	Model specification	Methodological issuesYes/No		Yes/No	Environmental, Social, and Financial		EndogeneityCiocirlan and Pettersson (2012)	Yes	Concern for environment	No	Only Environmental	Regression with Cross-sectional data.	NoHarjoto et al. (2015)	No	Composite Index using KLD data	No	All Three Dimensions	Panel data model with fixed effects.	YesAli et al. (2014)	No	ROA, Employee Productivity	No	Only Financial	Multiple Hierarchical Regression.	NoRichard et al. (2007)	Yes	Productivity	External Organizational Context	Only Financial	Panel data model with Random effects.	NoAndrevski, Richard, Shaw, and Ferrier (2014)	No	Market Share, Average Stock Returns	Competitive intensity	Only Financial	Panel data model with Random effects.	NoOur Study	Yes	ROA, GHG emission, and Social Spending	Slack Resources and Absorption Capacity	All Three dimensions	SUR Model	Yes3. Theoretical background3.1. Institutional logics perspectiveTo understand the impact of a racially diverse workforce on an organization's CSR activities, we employ the lens of institutional logics. Institutional logics have been defined as the socially constructed, historical patterns of material practices, assumptions, values, beliefs, and rules by which individuals produce and reproduce their material subsistence, organize time and provide meaning to their social reality (Thornton & Ocasio, 2008, pg. 101). Six institutional logics are suggested in the literature, namely, market, community, profession, family, corporate, and state logics (Thornton & Ocasio, 2008). Each institutional logic is considered to be a combination of symbolic meanings and material practices (Mutch, 2018). Organizations essentially adopt material practices associated with a logic to show adherence to the logic. Research in the field of institutional logics demonstrates that multiple institutional logics often coexist in organizational fields where they may impose different and potentially conflicting demands on organizations (Battilana & Dorado, 2010; Greenwood, Raynard, Kodeih, Micelotta, & Lounsbury, 2011; Pache & Santos, 2013). Organizations have to deal with multiple demands, which causes tensions and trade-offs (Carroll, 2016). The literature on institutional logics addresses how organizations can respond to conflicting demands and mitigate tensions. Furthermore, corporations tend to act in socially responsible ways if normative institutions are in place that create the proper set of incentives for such behavior (Campbell, 2007). Thus, it can be argued that adherence to certain institutional logics may reward organizations that perform CSR activities.The institutional logics perspective highlights how organizations are embedded within broader systems of meaning and how this embeddedness activates salient institutional logics in organizations that can enable or constrain organizational decisions, practices, and actions (Glynn & Raffaelli, 2013). Furthermore, one can explain which logics become salient by the internal representation of the logics (Pache & Santos, 2010), power imbalance, and mutual dependence (Furnari, 2016). As CSRP is concerned with both “profit maximization goals” (based on market logic) and “social goals” (based on community logic) (Glynn & Raffaelli, 2013), we argue that how organizations respond to the tensions will be based on the internal representations, power imbalances, and mutual dependencies of the logics. Therefore, we employ this lens in our research to help explain how organizational decisions related to CSRP may diverge based on the saliencies of the logics they adhere to (Cobb, Wry, & Zhao, 2016).Research suggests that organizations respond to multiple institutional logics simultaneously. The organizational response to a logic is based on the internal representation of the logic (Pache & Santos, 2010), which implies that the agency is enabled through the presence of multiple logics (Skelcher & Smith, 2015). Logics are not purely top-down, as individuals within an organization adhere to different logics based on their past experience. Furthermore, individuals use these logics to reach decisions and make demands on organizations (Binder, 2007). Therefore, using this lens allows us to theorize about the agency of the workforce. Finally, the institutional logics lens accounts for the saliency of demands. The saliency of demands is an important consideration to analyzing why some stakeholders demand CSR activities (Jackson et al., 2018). Therefore, utilizing this lens will allow us to highlight how and when different components of CSR become salient.4. Hypothesis development4.1. Racial diversity and CSR performanceThe role of institutional logics in explaining individual behavior is studied using a social identity lens (Tajfel, 1981). This lens is based on how individuals may perceive themselves as being members of relevant social groups (Farndale, Biron, Briscoe, & Raghuram, 2015). Identification with a particular group would imply that an individual would adhere to the institutional logics of the group (Thornton & Ocasio, 2008). Within an organization, employees make use of institutional logics and local meanings based on their personal interests and professional commitments (Binder, 2007). Thus, institutional logics shape the behavior of an individual based on the social group that she has embraced (Molina, 2012). Individuals may be influenced by institutional logics through different channels, such as their education, work experience, and life experiences, or by being exposed to different organizational fields. Therefore, different employees will bring their own logics to the organization. For example, racial minorities are members of a society, but they may be exposed to different key cornerstone institutions of the society (Pache & Santos, 2013), and hence, they may adhere to different logics than the majority community. Research in public policy has shown that African American citizens and administrators are more likely to engage in active representation of alternate logics and try to promote the interest of the larger community they belong to; additionally, they are more likely to support initiatives towards the community (Fernandez, Malatesta, & Smith, 2013). Furthermore, Munro (2013) found that different ethnic groups prioritized different elements of CSR activities within an organization. For example, the Asian nationality group prioritized environmental initiatives, whereas those from the Middle East prioritized local issues (Munro, 2013). Racial minorities tend to expect CSR activities regardless of the social context given their history and value system (Smith et al., 2001). All of these findings indicate that racial minorities may hold a different logic than the majority, and it is embedded in their own community. This different logic is the logic of community (Greening & Turban, 2000). A concern for the environment and community well-being is the primary concern of the logic of community, which is essentially focused on community good (Thornton, Jones, & Kury, 2005). Thus, it can be argued that the racial minority employees may demand that the organization adopt material practices associated with the logic of community.While racial minorities may bring the logic of community, an organization's response to this type of demand depends on the degree to which such competing demands are internally represented (Pache & Santos, 2010). Furthermore, mutual dependencies and power imbalances also play a crucial role in how organizations respond to conflicting logics (Furnari, 2016). Organizations may differ in the extent to which competing institutional demands are internally represented, i.e., in the extent to which organizational members adhere to and promote a given demand (Kim, Shin, Oh, & Jeong, 2007). In some cases, one or all internal groups are overtly committed to one side of the conflict and are likely to take actions to promote and defend it. In such cases, the internal representation is said to be single; therefore, the power imbalance will be high and the dominant stakeholders will try to resist organizational change (Furnari, 2016). In cases where multiple sides of the conflict are internally represented, different groups exhibit competitive commitment patterns (Greenwood & Hinings, 1996; Pache & Santos, 2010). In such cases, because the mutual dependence between the organizations and employees is high, the organization will allow new institutional logics to emerge (Furnari, 2016).Research suggests that the cognitive frames of decision makers are shaped by the dominant and contested institutional logics that are present in the organization (Hahn, Pinkse, Preuss, & Figge, 2015). Employees have sufficient voice and representation in an enterprise to reward responsible behavior or withdraw their loyalty from irresponsible firms (Brammer et al., 2012). Thus, organizations have to respond to internal pressures in some way, especially to those demands that are made by a diverse workforce (Dass & Parker, 1999). Therefore, the employees can make demands on the organization to adhere to practices associated with the community logic. However, the organizational response will depend on the internal representation of the logic.Considering that the diversity of opinions has an impact on the organization's CSR and that the decision making of management is influenced by conflicting institutional logics, we argue that racial diversity within an organization will lead the organization to try to meet multiple demands. Because competing logics are present within a racially diverse workforce, a focal firm may resort to complex responses such as compartmentalization or combination that are specifically adapted to instances of institutional complexity (Almandoz, 2012; Binder, 2007; Creed, DeJordy, & Lok, 2010; Meyer & Hammerschmid, 2006). Pache and Santos (2013) argue that an organization's response to multiple logics is governed by an individual's adherence to logics and the context in which it operates. The context of the organization can be broken down into instances of low hybridity, where there is one dominant logic and either no alternate logic or a weak one, and instances of high hybridity, where there are multiple logics that have similar strength (Pache & Santos, 2013). We argue that a racially diverse workforce makes the organizational context hybrid, and with an increase in racial diversity (high hybridity), the organization will have to undertake more complex responses. As a racially diverse workforce may present the organization with competing logics, racial diversity should positively influence the organization's CSRP.CSR can be categorized into the social, environmental, and financial activities of organizations. In general, organizations adhere to the logic of the market that focuses on shareholder value enhancement (Thornton & Ocasio, 2008). A prominent logic associated with racial minorities is that of the community (Greening & Turban, 2000). When the percentage of racial minorities in a firm is low, the internal representation of the community logic will be low. Moreover, an increase in racial diversity will lead to an increase in the internal representation of the community logic. As the internal representation of the logic increases, the organization will not be able to ignore their demands (Pache & Santos, 2010). The logic of community may not be at odds with a firm's profit maximization objective. Because of the alternative logics, a firm may be able to cater to wider customer segments more effectively (Guillaume, Dawson, Otaye-Ebede, Woods, & West, 2017). Additionally, by showing concern for the local community, an organization can gain support from it (King et al., 2011). Both of these factors indicate that incorporating a community logic improves a firm's primary goal of profit maximization and/or overall performance. Hence, we argue that initially, an increase in racial diversity will increase a firm's financial performance.However, as the racial diversity increases, the internal representation of the alternative logics will start to become dominant. After a certain point, the presence of strong alternative logics such as the community may give rise to role conflicts and create conflict between various stakeholders (Lantos, 2001). Conflict may arise between minority members (with community logic) and majority members (with market logics), which would hinder profitability. Prior research has also indicated that the presence of two equally powerful competing logics may lead to an escalation of the conflict, which may create a situation of paralysis and could even lead to permanent organizational breakups (Pache & Santos, 2010). Hence, we argue that although an increase in racial diversity may initially increase the financial performance, after a certain point a further increase will lead to a decrease in the financial performance due to an increase in conflict. Hence, we hypothesize as follows:H1Workforce racial diversity has an inverted-U shaped relationship with a firm's financial performance.Racial minorities bring the logic of community to the organization, and the extant literature has shown that the logic of community focuses on improving social welfare (Greening & Turban, 2000). As the racial diversity increases, the alternate logic of the community will gain more internal representation, and it may become difficult for any organization to ignore the internal demands that arise because of such logics. To satisfy such demands, an organization will engage in more social spending.However, after a certain point, an increase in racial diversity will create unbalanced demands towards the community logic, which may hinder organizations' profit maximization objectives. Faced with conflicting demands that eclipse organizational goals, organizations may completely avoid the alternate logic or may even manipulate it (i.e., try to alter the content of institutional demand) (Pache & Santos, 2010). As market logic is associated with the primary goal of maximizing the profits of the organizations, we argue that an organization may avoid or manipulate demands related to community logic. Avoidance or manipulation implies that the logic will no longer be part of an organization's response to the internal demands and the organization will limit its social spending. Hence, although an increase in the racial minorities in the workforce will increase social spending initially, after a certain point an increase in minority members will threaten an organization's goal of profit maximization, leading to a decrease in social spending. Therefore, we make the following hypothesis:H2Workforce racial diversity has an inverted U-shaped relationship with a firm's social performance.Prior research shows that community logic also incorporates the concerns related to the environment (Ciocirlan & Pettersson, 2012). Racial minorities are more vulnerable to the ill effects of climate change, as most racial minorities suffer from socio-economic disparities (Shonkoff, Morello-Frosch, Pastor, & Sadd, 2011). Because of these vulnerabilities, minority communities are more likely to demand that the organization pay attention to issues related to the environment. Additionally, members of a minority community are often told to make a difference in the wider community (Smith et al., 2001), which may also imply that the minority members pay special attention to the local environment. An increase in minorities will lead to a greater internal representation of the community logic, thereby forcing the organization to focus on environmental concerns. Thus, the organization will have to meet the demands of the community logic. To address these demands, the organization will spend more on environmentally friendly activities, which will reduce GHG emissions.However, if they rise above a certain threshold, demands of this type may become untenable for an organization. Research in environmental sustainability shows that many firms find it difficult to stay on schedule with their environmental sustainability goals because these goals may be at odds with profitability (Gray & Bebbington, 2001). Initially, firms may easily achieve a certain level of environmental performance, as they can make small changes in the production processes and grab the low-hanging fruits. Still, as the demand for the sought environmental performance grows, such low-hanging fruits disappear and the firm may need to sacrifice profits to achieve higher environmental performance (Hussain, 1999). Consistent with this view, we argue that as the demand for environmental performance grows with increases in the minority communities, this demand will conflict with the central goal of profitability, which is driven by market logic. Therefore, the organization will either avoid or manipulate demands (Pache & Santos, 2010) related to the environment, which will lead to an increase in GHG emissions. Hence, we hypothesize as follows:H3Workforce racial diversity has a U-shaped relationship with a firm's environmental performance (GHG emissions).4.2. Moderating effectsThe relationship between racial diversity and a firm's performance may be influenced by multiple contingencies. To recognize the demands of a racially diverse workforce, a firm should have an adequate absorptive capacity; to respond to such demands, the firm also needs to have adequate resources. Therefore, we evaluate the role of the absorptive capacity as well as slack resources. While the absorptive capacity is important from the demand-recognition perspective (Cohen & Levinthal, 2000), slack resources are important from the perspective of providing a substantive response (Julian & Ofori-dankwa, 2013).4.2.1. Absorptive capacityThe absorptive capacity is considered to be a dynamic capability that pertains to knowledge creation and utilization and that enhances a firm's ability to gain and sustain a competitive advantage (Zahra & George, 2002). A firm's absorptive capacity is found to be important not only for achieving high financial performance but also for achieving high environmental performance (Delmas et al., 2011). A diverse workforce brings different knowledge perspectives into the organization (Hopkins & Gross, 2015). However, to improve its CSRP, a firm must be able to realize these different knowledge stocks and integrate them with the current knowledge base. Prior research has shown that the absorptive capacity helps not only in the transfer of knowledge (Gupta & Govindarajan, 2001) but also in recombining new knowledge with the existing knowledge stock (Volberda, Foss, & Lyles, 2010). As the demands from racial minorities come from an entirely different logic, we argue that integrating these demands with the conventional market logic would require high levels of absorptive capacity. Therefore, high absorptive capacity may be useful for integrating the logic of community with the dominant logic of the market and should positively moderate the relationship between racial diversity and the CSRP.The benefits of having a diverse workforce will be fully accessible if the organizational absorptive capacity is also high. Organizations with high absorptive capacity will be able to adopt practices that will improve their CSRP. Thus, it can be argued that the absorptive capacity will have a positive influence on the relationship between the workforce racial diversity and the CSRP.H4aThe absorptive capacity will positively moderate the relationship between the workforce racial diversity and the financial performance.H4bThe absorptive capacity will positively moderate the relationship between the workforce racial diversity and the social performance.H4cThe absorptive capacity will positively (negatively) moderate the relationship between the workforce racial diversity and the environmental performance (GHG emissions).4.2.2. Slack resourcesSlack is defined as the difference between the total available resources and the total necessary resources (Daniel, Lohrke, Fornaciari, & Turner Jr, 2004). Slack resources have an impact on the CSR strategy of a firm in addition to the stakeholder pressure (Perez-Batres, Doh, Miller, & Pisani, 2012), with studies suggesting that slack resources will have a positive relationship with the CSRP (Arora & Dharwadkar, 2011; Shaukat, Qiu, & Trojanowski, 2016). However, another set of studies show that slack resources have a negative relationship with the CSRP (Shahzad, Mousa, & Sharfman, 2016). In essence, there is no concrete evidence regarding how and why slack influences the CSRP and the direction of the effects. Prior theorizing on slack has almost exclusively focused on the impact of the level of slack resources on the firm performance in an institutional vacuum; however, institutions exert a significant moderating effect on the slack–firm performance relationship (Vanacker, Collewaert, & Zahra, 2017). Research suggests that slack resources may be used to fill institutional voids in the markets rather than focus on CSR activities (Marano, Tashman, & Kostova, 2017). Julian and Ofori-dankwa (2013) argue that in an environment with uncertainty and a propensity for development, slack resources may be used by the firm to focus on profit-generating strategies rather than CSR. A similar perspective was proposed by Shahzad et al. (2016), who argued that managers may allocate slack resources for self-goal fulfillment.Lount Jr, Sheldon, Rink, and Phillips (2015) found that observers in their experiments were less willing to allocate additional resources to a diverse group because they perceived a greater conflict between logics. Thus, in cases where the conflict between the logics appears to be high, slack resources may be allocated elsewhere. Perez-Batres et al. (2012) argue that although slack resources are required by a firm to adopt new practices, this relationship is dependent on the level of demand pressure that the organization feels. Having slack resources would imply that the organization must choose between the demands made by conflicting logics. In cases where the representation made by the community logic and the market logic are both high, there will be extensive conflict (Besharov & Smith, 2014). In such cases, economic objectives have been perceived to be more prominent (Boxenbaum & Jonsson, 2017); therefore, in such cases, slack resources may be allocated to achieving economic objectives rather than CSR objectives. Similarly, when only one of the logics is dominant, there is no conflict within the organization (Besharov & Smith, 2014). In such cases, slack resources will be allocated as per the norms of the dominant logic. It can be argued that an increase in slack resources may lead an organization to focus on its organizational goals rather than its CSRP demands when there is strong internal representation of the community and market logics. Thus, as the racial diversity increases in an organization, observers may note that the conflict is increasing, and as a result, they will allocate the slack resources to demands not made by the racially diverse workforce. Hence, we make the following hypotheses:H5aThe relationship between the workforce racial diversity and the financial performance is negatively moderated by the slack resources.H5bThe relationship between the workforce racial diversity and the social performance is negatively moderated by the slack resources.H5cThe relationship between the workforce racial diversity and the environmental performance (GHG) is negatively (positively) moderated by the slack resources.Based on the above discussion, we propose the conceptual framework of the study (see Fig. 1).Fig. 1Download : Download high-res image (280KB)Download : Download full-size imageFig. 1. Conceptual framework.5. Method5.1. Data and sampleWe collect our data using multiple sources comprising the Bloomberg Database, firms' financial reports, and sustainability reports. The Bloomberg Database not only addresses exchange filings but also uses data from many publicly available sources, which makes this database superior to any other existing databases (Wu & Birge, 2014). We validated the Bloomberg data using firms' annual reports, sustainability reports, and other publicly disclosed information. To select our sample, we first took a sample of Fortune 2000 firms. Among these firms, those that had not reported racial diversity even for one year for the period 2009–2014 were dropped from our data. Then, we collected data for our dependent variables as well as for our multiple control variables from the same sources. Finally, our sample consists of 204 firms that belonged to 9 industries and were spread across 21 countries for a period of 6?years from 2009 to 2014.5.2. Measures5.2.1. Dependent variables5.2.1.1. Financial performanceFinancial performance is operationalized as the return on assets (ROA) (Murphy et al., 1996).(1)The ROA is a more conservative measure of performance, and findings using it as a profitability measure can be generalized for other performance measures such as the ROI and return on equity (ROE), but not vice versa (Murphy et al., 1996).5.2.1.2. Social performanceWe operationalize the social performance as the community spending that refers to the amount of money (in millions) spent on community building activities, including donations made in cash and kind but excluding employee contributions and money raised through events (Hogan, Olson, & Sharma, 2014). Marquis, Glynn, and Davis (2007) found that social giving in this form corresponds to corporate social actions.5.2.1.3. Environmental performanceWe operationalize the environmental performance as the total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The total GHG is the summation of the scope 1 and scope 2 emissions of a firm. Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions made by a company, whereas scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions such as emissions from purchased electricity, steam and/or heating/cooling (Lee, 2011). Note that a decrease in the environmental performance is more useful in our context, as we measure it with the GHG emissions (the lower the GHG emissions are, the better the firm is doing environmentally). The GHG emission is also an important measure of environmental performance, as it is responsible for changing climates and the worldwide rise in temperatures, which concerns policy-makers and corporations across the globe (Meinshausen et al., 2009). Prior research has shown that a reduction in GHG emissions will enhance employee job satisfaction, involvement, and commitment, which are key to firm productivity (Boiral, 2006). Therefore, it is critical for a firm to reduce its overall GHG emissions to cater to multiple demands by employees.5.2.2. Independent and moderating variables5.2.2.1. Racial diversityWe operationalize racial diversity as the percentage of racial minorities in the workforce. Prior research shows that the percentage of minorities captures the racial diversity adequately, as it represents members of the society who are in some ways different from its traditional members (Herring, 2009). The Bloomberg database explicitly reports this number based on data disclosed by companies as well as other publicly disclosed information.(2)5.2.2.2. Slack resourcesConsistent with the literature, we measure the slack resources using the current ratio (Iyer & Miller, 2008). The measure also has a strategic significance in our context: with an increase in slack, a firm may have resources to pursue multiple objectives such as CSRP. As our hypotheses are based on a firm's response to employee demands, it is important to consider slack, which is discretionary (captured by the current ratio) rather than absorbed throughout the organization (Greve, 2003). Hence, we use the current ratio as a measure of the slack.5.2.2.3. Absorptive capacityWe use the SG&A intensity (the ratio of the SG&A spent to the total assets) as a proxy for the absorptive capacity (Saboo, Sharma, Chakravarty, & Kumar, 2017). High levels of SG&A intensity indicate that the organization has the ability to absorb knowledge (from the market, research, and competition), hence, it develops a diverse knowledge stock (Cohen & Levinthal, 2000). In our context, a firm should be able to assimilate different demands from a diverse workforce and should have the ability to absorb diverse knowledge. A firm that engages in higher SG&A spending (which includes R&D) will have the potential to recognize and understand demands from a racially diverse workforce.5.2.3. Control variablesConsistent with the prior literature, we control for firm-specific and industry-specific factors in our model (Bai, 2013; Wood, 2010).5.2.3.1. Firm-specific controlAs large-sized firms may invest more in CSR to prevent damage due to non-participation (Udayasankar, 2008), we account for the firm size (operationalized as the natural logarithm of the total number of employees) (Wang, He, & Mahoney, 2009). We control for the total assets using the natural logarithm of the total assets. Prior research notes that financially healthy firms invest more in CSR (McWilliams & Siegel, 2001). Consistently, we control for financial health and operationalize it as the logarithm of the total revenues of the firms. The extant literature shows that both independent directors (Arora & Dharwadkar, 2011) and women directors (Ali et al., 2014) influence firms' social spending. The percentage of women directors may be socially sensitive, and hence, it may enhance organizations' CSR spending (Ali et al., 2014). Similarly, because outside directors are long-term focused, they may focus on CSR, which is more likely to pay off in the long run (Arora & Dharwadkar, 2011). Consistently, we control for board diversity in our model. The extant literature shows that the board size has a negative effect on firms' social spending (Bai, 2013). Larger boards are less effective at managing corporate governance, which may hinder firms' social performance (Bai, 2013). We operationalize the board size as the total number of board members.5.2.3.2. Industry-specific controlThe extant literature shows that the types of industry may influence the CSR, as regulations within industries may differ, which would impact their CSR (Banerjee, Iyer, & Kashyap, 2003). Our data consist of firms from 9 industries (consumer discretionary, consumer staples, energy, finance, health, industrial, information technology, material, and others). Hence, we control for all of these industries in our models. We operationalize each industry as a dummy variable (the baseline is other industries). Moreover, we have included the type of industry in the first-stage regression model but not in the second-stage model. We tested the effects of different industry types in a separate post-doc analysis.5.3. Model specificationAs discussed previously, the financial, social, and environmental performance of a firm has been proposed to be interdependent (Parmigiani, Klassen, & Russo, 2011). We embrace this theoretical positioning and lean on our hypotheses to formulate a testable model. We begin by specifying a system of equations to account for the potentially simultaneous effects of racial diversity on a firm's financial, social, and environmental performance. Before we specify the SUR modeling framework, we discuss the potential endogeneity issue in the racially diverse workforce.5.3.1. Accounting for endogeneityA firm's decision to include a racially diverse workforce may be a strategic choice, as it has performance implications and is often governed by state regulations. Decision makers may decide what the percentage of minorities should be in the workforce based on their experiences and the need of the hour. Consistently, the percentage of minorities in the workforce may be potentially endogenous. In the research related to diversity and CSR, prior studies indicate that not accounting for endogeneity is a major reason for the contradictory findings (Jo & Harjoto, 2012). We account for the potential endogeneity in our variable “racial diversity” using a two-step control function approach (Petrin & Train, 2010; Wang, Saboo, & Grewal, 2015). In the first step, we include a few exogenous variables that may influence the percentage of minorities in the workforce. Consistent with the literature (Campbell & Mínguez-Vera, 2008), we include the size and financial health of a firm in our first-stage equation. As the structure of the board may have a significant influence on the firms' decision on the percentage of minorities, we include other variables such as the percentage of women, the percentage of independent directors, and the board size in the first-stage equation (Erhardt, Werbel, & Shrader, 2003; Harjoto et al., 2015). Finally, we also include the types of the industry in our first-stage equation.In accordance with the exclusion restrictions proposed by Maddala (1983) and Hausman (1978), we include the average of similar firms' percentage of minorities in the workforce in the first-stage equation, though it is excluded from our final model. Similar firms are those firms that have similar revenue within a particular industry. We manually examine each firm's revenue and consider firms with similar revenue (20%?±?the focal firm's revenue). Then, we identify the total number of firms and their respective revenues and average out the minority percentage within a specific industry. We argue that this variable satisfies the criteria of both relevance (i.e., is related to our focal independent variable) and exogeneity (i.e., it does not have direct effects on our dependent variable). As firms are uncertain about the actual percentage of racial minorities they should have in their workforce, we argue that firms follow other, similar firms in the industry to manage the workforce racial diversity to improve their performance. This understanding is in line with the theory of mimetic isomorphism (DiMaggio & Powell, 1983). However, this exclusion variable should not affect a firm's performance for several reasons: a) it at best reflects the similar firms' strategies and will not have any significant effect on focal firms' performance, and b) the firm performance is largely dependent on factors specific to the firm, such as its organizational structure (i.e., the board size), organizational size (i.e., the number of employees), the firm's overall health, and the values that the firm may adhere to (Dwyer, Richard, & Chadwick, 2003). Therefore, we believe that our instrument is a valid instrument. We further test the validity of the instrument with correlation analysis and the Sargan test. Our first-stage equation can be written as follows:(3)where Simracial_diversityit represents the average of similar firms' minority percentage and zit is the set of control variables in the first-stage regression model. Given the correction for potential endogeneity in the racially diverse workforce, we use the SUR model below:(4)(5)(6)(7)where Social_Spendit, ROAit and GHGit represent the social performance, financial performance, and environmental performance,2 respectively; racial_diversityit represents the racial diversity, absit represents the absorptive capacity, and slackit represents the slack resources. Moreover, Controlj represents a set of control variables and  is the residual from Eq. (3). In Eqs. (4), (5), (6), in accordance with our proposed hypothesis, we capture the non-linearity in the effects of racial diversity by including both a linear term and a quadratic term. To account for the possible simultaneous effects, we included the same set of covariates in Eqs. (4), (5), (6). Next, given that the social performance, financial performance, and environmental performance can be affected by common unobservable factors, we allow for the contemporaneous correlation between the error terms in Eqs. (4), (5), (6) through cov(?1it,?2it,?3it,)?≠?0 (Zellner & Huang, 1962).We use the SAS and STATA statistical software for the analysis. In addition, we test for any violation of our assumptions and do not find any significant violation. We use the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC) and Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC) to assess the model fit.6. ResultsWe present the correlation matrix and the descriptive statistics in Table 2.Table 2. Correlation matrix and descriptive statistics.(1)	(2)	(3)	(4)	(5)	(6)	(7)	(8)	(9)	(10)	(11)	(12)(1) Environmental performance	1											(2) Social performance	0.01	1										(3) Financial performance	?0.03	0.29???	1									(4) Racial diversity	?0.07??	0.19???	0.15???	1								(5) Slack resources (SLK)	?0.10???	0.06??	0.24???	0.06??	1							(6) Absorptive capacity (AC)	?0.12???	0.26???	0.16???	0.03	0.25???	1						(7) Size of the firm	0.02	0.23???	?0.03	0.06??	?0.05?	?0.03	1					(8) Percentage of women on the board	0.10???	0.11???	0.02	0.20???	?0.01	0.05??	0.00	1				(9) Percentage of independent directors	?0.06??	0.17???	0.05?	0.30???	?0.02	0.12???	?0.09???	0.46???	1			(10) Size of the board	?0.014	0.03	?0.27???	0.00	?0.02	?0.04	0.12???	0.09???	0.04	1		(11) Financial health (log(Revenue))	0.15???	0.38???	?0.14???	0.07??	?0.19???	0.02	0.71???	0.05?	0.05?	0.15???	1	(12) log(total assets)	0.04?	0.23???	?0.57???	?0.10???	?0.16???	0.01	0.44???	0.02	?0.06??	0.41???	0.65???	1Mean	17.53	2.84	1.6	20.7	1.41	1.80	10.36	15.64	65.63	12	9.5	10.5Standard deviation	10.91	1.45	0.53	13.03	0.91	3.30	1.33	9.9	25.85	2.86	1.17	1.56?p?<?0.10.??p?<?0.05.???p?<?0.01.In addition, we test for any possible multicollinearity among the variables, and because VIF?<?10, we confirm that multicollinearity is not an issue. In the results of the first-stage regression in Eq. (3) (see Table 3), we can see that the average of similar firms' minority percentage (Simracial_diversityit) significantly influences the focal firm's minority percentage (??=?.84, p?<?.1). Moreover, we find that the firm size (??=?1.16, p?<?.01) and the percentage of independent directors (??=?.13, p?<?.01) positively influence the racial diversity. Furthermore, our results show that industry dummies such as consumer discretionary (??=?2.52, p?<?.1), consumer staples (??=?8.63, p?<?.01), and health (??=?5.44, p?<?.01) positively influence the racial diversity. Finally, we find that a firm with higher total assets will have lower racial diversity (??=???.34, p?<?.01).Table 3. First-stage regression results.Estimate	Std. errorAvg. of similar firms' racial diversity	0.84?	0.48% of women on board	0.05	0.04% of independent directors	0.13???	0.02Total assets	?0.34???	0.11Board size	0.09	0.14Firm size	1.16???	0.36Financial health	0.37	112Consumer discretionary	2.52?	1.42Consumer staples	8.63???	1.46Energy	0.84	1.72Financial	0.57	1.18Health	5.44???	1.95Industrials	?1.51	1.26Information technology	1.85	1.69Material	?2.18	1.54Intercept	?19.91?	10.68F-statistics	15.41???	?p?<?0.10, ??p?<?0.05, ???p?<?0.01.For the endogeneity correction, we find that the focal variable of racial diversity is endogenous. Across all three of the equations (Eqs. (4), (5), (6)), we find that the estimates of the correction term are significant (πfin?=???.02, p?<?.01; πsoc?=???.04, p?<?0.01; πenv?=?.37, p?<?.01).Among the results of Eqs. (4), (5), (6) (see Table 4), we find that there is an inverted U-shaped relationship between a racially diverse workforce and a firm's financial performance (?linear_fin?=?.25, p?<?.01; ?sq_fin?=???.006, p?<?.1), which supports H1. The results validate our theoretical assertion that with an increase in the racial diversity of the workforce, a firm may be able to achieve better financial performance initially; however, after a certain point, a higher percentage of minorities may be detrimental to a firm's financial performance. This finding indicates that an increase in racial diversity may sway a firm away from its primary logic of the market and subsequently reduce its financial performance.Table 4. Parameter estimates.3DV: financial performance	DV: social performance	DV: environmental performanceEstimate	Std. error	Estimate	Std. error	Estimate	Std. errorIntercept	2.34???	0.12	?2.99???	0.41	18.55???	3.34Racial diversity (RD)	0.25???	0.05	0.77???	0.16	?0.585???	0.13Square of racial diversity	?0.006?	0.003	?0.021??	0.010	0.015?	0.008Slack resources (SLK)	0.16???	0.03	0.36???	0.11	?0.167?	0.089Absorptive capacity (AC)	?0.01	0.01	0.07?	0.03	?0.14	0.30RD???SLK	?0.029???	0.011	?0.08??	0.03	0.0469?	0.029RD???AC	0.013???	0.004	0.10	0.15	?0.0076	0.011Firm SIZE	0.01	0.01	?0.09??	0.04	?1.40???	0.35% of women on board	?0.08	1.38	0.53	4.60	?0.04	0.03% of Independent directors	?0.38???	0.08	?0.23	0.25	0.04??	0.02Board size	0.04	0.48	?1.26	1.59	0.08	0.12Financial health	0.15???	0.02	0.46???	0.06	3.82???	0.48Total assets	?0.26???	0.01	0.09??	0.04	?1.25???	0.34Endogeneity – RD	?0.02???	0.00	?0.04???	0.01	0.37???	0.12AIC	13,428.71					BIC	13,640.48					?p?<?0.10.??p?<?0.05.???p?<?0.01.Our results also show that there is an inverted U-shaped relationship between the racial diversity in the workforce and the social performance (?linear_soc?=?.77, p?<?.01; ?sq_soc?=???.021, p?<?.05) (H2 supported). Similarly, consistent with H3, we find that there is a U-shaped relationship between the racial diversity and the environmental performance of firms (?linear_env?=???.585, p?<?.01, ?sq_env?=?.015, p?<?.1). These results indicate that although firms may initially increase their social and environmental performance by incorporating community logic with greater racial diversity in the workforce, after a certain point the community logic may threaten the organizational goal of profitability. This threat may lead to a change in a firm's strategic response, which would reduce its social and environmental performance.We find that the absorptive capacity positively moderates the relationship between the racial diversity and the financial performance (??=?.013, p?<?.01), which supports H4a. However, the absorptive capacity does not have any significant impact on the proposed relationship between the racial diversity, social performance, and environmental performance (see Table 4). The results show that the slack resources negatively moderate the relationship between the racial diversity and financial performance (??=???.029, p?<?.01), which supports H5a; the slack resources also negatively moderate the relationship between the racial diversity and the social performance (??=???.08, p?<?.05), which supports H5b. Similarly, we find that the slack resources positively moderate the relationship between the racial diversity and GHG emission (??=?.0469, p?<?.1), which supports H5c (see Fig. 2 for the graphical representation of the significant moderating effects4).Fig. 2Download : Download high-res image (1005KB)Download : Download full-size imageFig. 2. Interaction effects.We also find significant effects of a few control variables. For Eq. (4) (DV?=?ROA), we find that the financial health (??=?.15, p?<?.01) has a positive impact, whereas the percentage of independent directors (??=???.38, p?<?.01) and total assets (??=???.26, p?<?.01) have a negative effect on the ROA. For Eq. (5) (DV?=?social performance), we find that the financial health (??=?.46, p?<?.01) and total assets (??=?.09, p?<?.05) have a positive relationship, whereas the firm size (??=???.09, p?<?.05) has a negative impact on the social performance. Finally, for Eq. (6), we find that the percentage of independent directors (??=?.04, p?<?.05) and financial health (??=?3.82, p?<?.01) positively impact the GHG emissions, whereas the firm size (??=???1.40, p?<?.01) and total assets (??=???1.25, p?<?.01) negatively impact the GHG emissions.We perform additional robustness checks including a model without an endogeneity correction, a controls-only model, and a model with heterogeneity. Similarly, we estimate our model with alternate dependent variables (namely, EPS as a measure of the financial performance and total waste as a measure of the environmental performance). In all of these cases, we find consistent results.5 However, the performance of each of the models is inferior to the proposed model. For example, the model without endogeneity (AIC?=?13,489.31), the controls-only model (AIC?=?13,536.89), and the model with heterogeneity (AIC?=?13,432.77) are inferior to the proposed model (AIC?=?13,428.71). For the model with the alternate DVs (EPS for the financial performance and total waste for the environmental performance), we find support for H1, H2, H3, H4a, H4b, H5a, H5b, and H5c. Note that given the different operationalization of the DVs, although we cannot compare the model with alternate DVs with the proposed model, the model with alternate DVs has AIC?=?14,589.11.7. Post hoc analysis7.1. Industry fixed effects and country fixed effectsWe conduct post hoc analysis with the industry fixed effects, which helps us to find the heterogeneity across industries. Our results reveal that the healthcare sector has significant fixed effects (?healthcarefin?=?.18, p?<?0.05; ?healthcaresoc?=?.79, p?<?0.01; ?healthcareenv?=???4.23, p?<?0.1). This result is consistent with the reports in the popular press, which outlines the large overlap between all three CSRP dimensions.6 Enhancing the environmental footprint also saves costs for the healthcare providers. A recent survey conducted by Becker's Hospital Review in the United States has shown that a racially diverse workforce increases trust as well as respect among customers towards the service providers, which increases the customer satisfaction.7 These findings are consistent with our argument that a diverse workforce may help a firm cater to the wider customer segment. Our findings also highlight that firms in the consumer discretionary sector derive significantly higher benefits than the baseline. This sector includes non-essential, desirable products and services only when sufficient income is available for consumers. Due to a diverse customer base, such a sector needs a highly racially diverse workforce, as suggested by multiple industry reports.8 Similarly, sectors with less diverse customer bases such as industrials, energy, and materials have shown no difference from the baseline with respect to the financial performance, which also corroborates our assertion. However, firms in these sectors can still reap the benefits from other CSRP dimensions. Note that the industry fixed effects inform managers of the sectors that can achieve higher benefits with a racially diverse workforce.On a similar note, we also test for the country fixed effects. To that end, we first create dummy variables for each country and use n-1 dummy variables within our proposed model. As shown in Table 5, we achieve largely consistent results with support for H1, H2, H3, H4a, H5a, and H5b. Furthermore, we use the UAE as the base country. For Eq. (4), we find that France and Belgium have a negative impact and Hong-Kong has a positive impact compared to the UAE on financial performance. For Eq. (5), we find that South Korea has a stronger positive impact on social performance than the corresponding impact of the UAE. Finally, (for Eq. (6)), while China has a positive impact on GHG emissions, South Africa as well as Israel have a negative impact on GHG emissions with respect to the UAE.Table 5. Country fixed effects.DV: financial performance	DV: social performance	DV: environmental performanceEstimate	Std. error	Estimate	Std. error	Estimate	Std. errorIntercept	2.20???	0.19	?3.11???	0.66	19.18???	5.22Racial diversity (RD)	0.03???	0.00	0.07???	0.02	?0.42???	0.13Square of racial diversity	?0.0004???	0.00001	?0.0006???	0.00001	0.012???	0.001Slack resources (SLK)	0.17???	0.03	0.26??	0.11	?1.36	0.86Absorptive capacity (AC)	0.00	0.01	0.07??	0.04	?0.23	0.29RD???SLK	?0.003???	0.001	?0.005?	0.003	0.03	0.03RD???AC	0.001??	0.0004	0.00	0.00	?0.01	0.01Firm size	0.02?	0.01	?0.07	0.04	?1.53???	0.35% of women on board	0.00	0.00	0.00	0.00	?0.01	0.04% of independent directors	0.00???	0.00	?0.01???	0.00	0.05?	0.03Board size	0.00	0.01	0.01	0.02	0.05	0.14Financial health	0.14???	0.02	0.38???	0.06	3.55???	0.51Total assets	?0.27???	0.01	0.14???	0.05	?1.41???	0.37Endogeneity – RD	?0.02???	0.00	?0.05???	0.01	0.34???	0.12China	0.18	0.16	?0.44	0.54	7.70?	4.25Taiwan	?0.08	0.16	0.04	0.55	3.13	4.36USA	0.15	0.17	0.54	0.59	0.68	4.66Canada	0.23	0.17	0.39	0.59	?1.44	4.69Greece	?0.07	0.26	0.35	0.89	9.56	7.01UK	0.16	0.17	0.33	0.57	?2.16	4.47France	?0.55??	0.22	0.66	0.75	?1.90	5.94Italy	?0.29	0.25	0.22	0.84	9.00	6.64Brazil	0.19	0.16	0.64	0.54	?3.43	4.29Israel	?0.18	0.22	0.00	0.74	?10.54?	5.85India	0.19	0.18	0.41	0.61	1.81	4.81Hong Kong	0.31?	0.17	?0.24	0.58	2.15	4.55Belgium	?0.67???	0.22	?1.15	0.76	?9.82	6.00Germany	?0.10	0.23	0.66	0.80	9.74	6.28Ireland	0.19	0.20	?0.56	0.67	0.48	5.29South Africa	0.05	0.18	?0.06	0.62	?8.85?	4.88South Korea	?0.21	0.22	1.52??	0.75	?0.75	5.89Australia	?0.30	0.21	0.81	0.72	3.95	5.71Japan	?0.14	0.18	?0.52	0.62	7.18	4.90Switzerland	0.03	0.22	1.18	0.76	2.49	6.00AIC	13,206.84					BIC	13,721.15					?p?<?0.10.??p?<?0.05.???p?<?0.01.7.2. Market fixed effectsOur data also enabled us to delve deeper into the benefits of racial diversity for firms from developed markets relative to those from developing markets. We find that whereas firms from developed markets gain more benefits in terms of the financial performance with racial diversity, firms from developing markets gain more benefits in terms of the environmental performance with racial diversity. Firms from developing markets may engage in less environmentally friendly activities because of the pursuit of high growth.9 Therefore, the presence of racial diversity should be highly beneficial, as it would reduce the environmental footprint. Again, firms from highly environmentally regulated and developed markets may gain much greater economic benefits, as most of these firms are expanding globally with a significantly diverse customer base.8. DiscussionThe central focus of our study is to understand the relationship between racial diversity and the CSRP. We are able to demonstrate that having a racially diverse workforce impacts the CSRP. Our study contributes to the literature as well as practice in myriad ways. We are able to mitigate concerns of confounding results in the literature by demonstrating that the relationship between racial diversity and CSRP is in fact non-linear. Furthermore, we move the CSR literature from its largely manageristic view to one that incorporates the employees. Importantly, we are able to pose arguments about the saliency and the impact of this saliency on the CSRP by using the lens of institutional logics.In terms of the practical implications, we observe that racial diversity within an organization is important because it improves the overall performance of the organization. However, the organization needs to maintain a balance, as a very high percentage of racial diversity or a minimal percentage of racial diversity are both harmful for the organization. We also find considerable moderation of the absorptive capacity and slack resources, which impacts how organizations develop a racially diverse workforce.8.1. Contributions to the literatureFrom a theoretical point of view, our work advances the literature on both the conceptual and methodological understanding of racial diversity and CSRP. First, this study is the first to provide a nuanced understanding of racial diversity and CSRP. Not only do we show that racial diversity can affect a firm's financial, social as well as environmental performance, but we also highlight that the relationship is curvilinear in nature. Our study suggests that a racially diverse workforce brings the logic of community, which would significantly change an organization's response to its corporate social responsibility. As a result, we extend the literature by mitigating paradoxical findings as well as answering the call for research made by multiple scholars (Ali et al., 2014; Young et al., 2015). We also contribute to the research on organizational CSRP by showing that the pressure of internal demands makes organizations focus on issues other than profitability. Furthermore, the saliency of the demands is based on the representation of those demands within an organization.Second, our work also enriches the literature on racial diversity and the CSRP by specifying the conditions that may facilitate or hinder the relationship between them. We show that high levels of absorptive capacity may be beneficial to integrating the alternative logics of community with the market logic; this condition may help a firm realize the benefits of a racially diverse workforce. Our findings provide support for the existing scholarship, which has alluded to the positive role of the absorptive capacity (Tang, Hull, & Rothenberg, 2012). Our research unravels a negative role of slack resources, which is contrary to the existing literature (Walker & Wan, 2012). This finding is important, as it shows that firms with higher slack resources may not always pay attention to the demands of a racially diverse workforce. In addition, this finding suggests that organizations may tend to focus on economic concerns rather than ethical concerns. Research in this particular area would be highly revealing, with future research addressing how different types of slack resources influence the CSRP.Third, our post hocs enrich the conceptual understanding related to racial diversity and the CSRP. We show that firms serving diverse customer segments would benefit more from having a racially diverse workforce. Therefore, this work also reveals a new theoretical insight that requires scholars to focus on the industry dynamics that may considerably alter the magnitudes of the effects. Similarly, firms from developing and developed countries would extract differential benefits from racially diverse workforces. These findings extend the prior literature by highlighting that findings based on a single country and a single industry may not be adequate to explain a complex relation such as the one between racial diversity and the CSRP.Finally, we make a vital methodological contribution. We estimate an SUR model and allow the errors to be correlated across firms. Without using an SUR model, the prior research has at best provided biased estimates that may lead to erroneous findings. Hence, in our work, we are able to overcome this important methodological limitation. In the process, we are also able to explain why the current research in this domain may have produced such paradoxical findings. Furthermore, by accounting for endogeneity, we dispense with concerns related to biased estimators. Both of these features indicate that our research is not only generalizable across industries but also robust in terms of the inferences it draws from the data.8.2. Contributions to the practiceOur study makes some important contributions to practice. First, from the managerial perspective, we clearly indicate that though firms should employ racial minorities, the proportion of minorities in the workforce can also have a negative impact on the CSRP. Firms should seek the optimal minority percentage in their workforce to manage the firm performance. As discussed earlier, business leaders have been making a strong case for racial diversity in the workplace. While our study supports their assertion, we also suggest that there is a limit to these benefits. Therefore, we recommend that organizations adopt a balanced view related to racial diversity.We highlight that while all industries may find employing a racially diverse workforce more beneficial, firms that operate in industries with diverse customer segments will extract much greater benefits from a racially diverse workforce. Based on our findings, we urge managers in such industries to pay close attention to this issue. Similarly, our findings also highlight that managers must understand that there is country-specific heterogeneity. Although developed market firms may extract higher financial performance, developing market firms may gain higher environmental performance with a racially diverse workforce. This conclusion also indicates that appropriate matrices to measure performance are vital to understanding the benefits of racial diversity. Countries must reflect upon the regulations governing racial diversity, which may lead to significant performance implications for industries.9. Limitations and future research directionsAlthough our study makes significant contributions to the literature, it has multiple limitations. First, from the diversity perspective, prior research has shown that diversity in an organization can be divided into high-visibility and low-visibility dimensions (Pelled, 1996). Although we focus on a high-visibility dimension (race) in this study, low-visibility dimensions (such as the organizational tenure, education, and functional background) may also impact the CSRP. Prior research has shown that low visibility may not lead to organizational conflict, and hence, the nature of the relationship between racial diversity and CSRP may be altered. Future research should explore this issue in detail. Second, due to the secondary nature of the study, it is not possible for us to distinguish whether the investments made in the social and environmental dimensions are embedded or peripheral in nature (Aguinis & Glavas, 2013). Future research may explore this issue in greater detail. Third, we have focused on racial diversity at a workforce level. It would be interesting to see how racial diversity at different levels of management (middle management, boards, etc.) may affect the CSRP differently. As board members are the most visible to the external world, one would suspect that they would have a higher effect on a firm's stock market performance (external performance). However, as mid-management teams act as a bridge between the board and the workforce, racial diversity in mid-management may have a much higher effect on employees' motivation and satisfaction (internal performance). Future research may delve deeper into this issue. Fourth, Green et al. (2018) suggest that managing a diverse workforce is difficult for organizations. We propose an avenue for future research by suggesting that organizations can focus on demands made by social groups as a way of managing diversity. Finally, there is a possibility that the absorptive capacity and slack resources are theoretically related. However, we did not find any strong correlation between them to suggest that there is any relation.