AbstractProviding employee benefits is costly for new ventures, yet offering such inducements is oftenessential to developing human capital. While a broad combination of employee benefits couldyield synergistic effects, adopting a large number of benefits may not be feasible for resourceconstrained ventures. To ensure survival, while limiting misallocation of scarce resources towardsbenefits that have lower returns, entrepreneurs must be selective in choosing the benefits thatgenerate the most Ôbang for the buckÕ. Our study assesses the effects of employee benefit offeringson venture survival odds. Based on a longitudinal sample of 1012 US-based ventures from theKauffman Firm Survey and leveraging, signalling and motivation theories, we find that offeringhealth insurance, flexible work schedules, paid vacation, or paid sick leave increase the odds ofsurvival. However, offering employee stock ownership plans or tuition reimbursement has nosignificant influence on the odds of survival.Keywordsemployee benefits, human capital management, new venture survivalIntroductionNew venture survival and growth are of significant importance to entrepreneurs, policy-makersand scholars around the globe (Ingley et al., 2017; Leitch et al., 2010). The question of new firmsurvival has been investigated and explained using a host of macro-level forces, includingCorresponding author:Jake G Messersmith, Department of Management, University of NebraskaÐLincoln, 1240 R Street, Lincoln, NE 68588, USA.Email: jmessersmith2@unl.edu717595ISB0010.1177/0266242617717595International Small Business JournalMessersmith et al.research-article2017ArticleMessersmith et al. 105economic conditions and industry structure (Hannan and Freeman, 1989). Other studies have alsohighlighted the role of resources and capabilities in improving odds of venture survival (EstevePŽrez and Ma–ez-Castillejo, 2008; Koryak et al., 2015; Shepherd et al., 2000; Wright and Stigliani,2013), but much remains unknown regarding the allocation of resources towards internal humanresource (HR) management practices.This remains an important area of inquiry in the literature, as early investment decisions in HRsare likely to have implications for venture survival and success (Lai et al., 2016). As a result of thesynergistic association among HR practices, HR scholars have focused on the joint efficacy of suchpractices on performance. However, the adoption and implementation of HR practices are costly,and both over-investing and under-investing in such practices could contribute to venture failure.Resource allocation has been theorized to be an important determinant of a firmÕs survival anddevelopment (Barney, 1991; Teece et al., 1997; Zahra et al., 2002), and entrepreneurs themselves areoften quick to point to internal resource allocation factors that led to the success or failure of theirventure (Zacharakis et al., 1999). Adopting practices that do not influence survival (over-investing)could increase costs for resource constrained ventures. Similarly, not adopting practices that improveodds of survival (under-investing) could also lead to failure. By helping to attract talented HRs,employee benefits play a salient role in both signalling the legitimacy of the new venture to potentialemployees (Zimmerman and Zeitz, 2002), and also in sorting quality candidates into the recruitmentpool. Furthermore, employee benefits help form the early foundation for building more robustsystems of high performance work practices (HPWPs). Under-investing in employee benefits could,therefore, limit the development of human capital for early-stage ventures.Moving from the systemic perspective of HPWPs, we aim to identify the influence ofemployee benefit practices on venture survival. Extending research linking HPWPs to thesuccess of small and young firms (i.e. Messersmith and Guthrie, 2010; Way, 2002), we aim toinform ventures allocating scarce resources towards employee benefits to not only increase theodds of survival but also to avoid implementing benefits that may increase the odds of failure.Therefore, we ask which employee benefit offerings are associated with increased survival odds,and which are more likely to be associated with firm failure?We draw from existing research to weigh the relative cost of an individual benefit and the likelyvalence of that benefit in attracting and retaining quality employees. We link employee benefitsthat have significant potential to aid firms in the attraction and retention of employees, which alsocarry relatively low costs to new firm survival, while also highlighting the problems associatedwith costly benefits that possibly are not as highly valued by employees in new ventures. As notedby Coff and Kryscynski (2011), Ôthe critical path to human capital-based competitive advantagerequires attracting, retaining, and motivating employees with valuable human capital at an economic discount relative to competitorsÕ (p. 3). This is particularly important in new ventures, whereentrepreneurs may be more concerned about the economic returns of their human capital investments than non-financial benefits that may accrue to employees (Bai et al., 2017). This article helpsto provide guidance in this direction and empirically tests the phenomenon of interest. Using alongitudinal sample of 1012 start-ups in the United States (followed from 2004 to 2011) and survival analysis methodology, our findings complement recent work by DeGeest et al. (2015) tosuggest that the strategic selection of employee benefits can increase the potential for new firmsurvival.This article contributes to existing knowledge in four specific ways. First, previous scholarshipon employee benefits in ventures treats all benefits as having similar motivational potential(DeGeest et al., 2015). We examine this assumption more closely to separate those benefits that arelikely more attractive to employees from those that fail to motivate, by conceptually analysing thevalence of differing benefit offerings. As new ventures are likely constrained by a lack of resources 106 International Small Business Journal: Researching Entrepreneurship 36(1)and a liability of newness (Caves, 1998; Shepherd et al., 2000; Stinchcombe, 1965), employeebenefits and rewards need to be scrutinized in regard to both cost and return.Second, differentiating between effective and ineffective employment benefits could be contingent on firm size. Research in the domain of strategic HR management investigates the efficacyof a bundled set of integrated practices that work in concert to improve performance outcomes(DeGeest et al., 2015; Huselid, 1995; Lai et al., 2016; Sheehan, 2013). While this approach hasproven beneficial for large firms in a variety of contexts (Jiang et al., 2012), the same may not beevident for smaller or newer ventures (Chadwick et al., 2013). In fact, in an environment ofresource constraint, entrepreneurs need to make strategic selection decisions that help overcomethe initial liability of newness. Resource orchestration takes on a primary role in determiningwhere to invest scarce resources to maximize survival and success potential (Chadwick et al.,2015). Against this backdrop, this article provides insights about the role of employee benefitofferings, helping to inform the debate surrounding investments in HRs early in a firmÕs lifecycle.Third, while industry forces are likely to play a significant role in the success or failure of newventures, internal factors are also likely to affect survival odds. While entrepreneurship researchhas addressed this in part, through studies of legitimacy (Delmar and Shane, 2004; Zimmermanand Zeitz, 2002) and business planning (Delmar and Shane, 2003), much remains unexplored inthis domain. Furthermore, understanding how internal factors relate to the odds of firm survival isan important area of inquiry, as guidance can be provided to entrepreneurs regarding factors thatare largely under their control, relative to other environmental forces.Finally, this article utilizes a unique longitudinal dataset to address the questions of interest.While much of the work on internal HR systems in new ventures is cross-sectional, this articleleverages time-lagged data to better understand the factors leading to new firm survival furthercontributing to small and medium-sized enterprise (SME) research on HR practices (Cardon andStevens, 2004; Lai et al., 2017; Messersmith and Wales, 2011; Verreynne et al., 2011). Theoreticaland practical guidance stemming from such analyses will be useful in continuing to build theoriesof firm survival.Literature review and theoretical modelExisting research has demonstrated that employee benefits have significant, but differential effectson employee attitudes and turnover intentions (Blau et al., 2001; Danehower and Lust, 1995). In astudy of public sector employees, Ko and Hur (2014) utilize social exchange theory to understandthe relationship between employee benefits and attitudinal outcomes. This article finds a positiverelationship between the use of both ÔtraditionalÕ employee benefits and family-friendly benefitsand job satisfaction. Furthermore, the authors note that family-friendly benefits are also linked tolower turnover intentions, while traditional benefits were not.Blau et al. (2001) note that basic or traditional benefit, is linked to lower labour turnover butnot necessarily to organizational commitment. Rather, benefits related to career development andenhancement were linked to higher level engagement and participation constructs. These results areechoed by Muse and Wadsworth (2012) who report that traditional benefits programmes were notlinked to perceived organizational support (POS) in a study of hospital employees, whereas nontraditional benefits did enhance POS. In addition, benefits have been linked to increased motivationfor employees, though these increases do not always translate into enhanced productivity (Honget al., 1995). These findings emphasize that not all benefits are highly valued by employees.Broadening the scope of discussion, existing work in the field also speaks to the connectionbetween employee benefit offerings and firm performance. DeGeest et al. (2015) report that Messersmith et al. 107motivational HR management practices mediate the relationship between a firmÕs initial resourcebase and survival. In addition, a study of the fastest 500 growing entrepreneurial firms in the UnitedStates demonstrated that benefits are linked to performance outcomes (Tomczyk et al., 2013). Inresearch exploring the link between employee benefits and firm performance, Lin et al. (2014) finda relationship between the overall strength of the benefit system and organizational performance ina sample of Chinese firms. In addition, within the Taiwanese manufacturing industry, firms offeringfringe benefits and retirement funds had lower turnover rates (Lee et al., 2006).With the exception of the mentioned studies, the link between employee benefit offeringsand firm performance is scant. In fact, there is little research on employee benefits programmesthemselves. We aim to advance knowledge in this area by theoretically and empirically investigating the connection between benefits offerings and new venture survival.Theoretical modelFollowing the resource-based view of the firm (Barney, 1991), some evidence suggests that firmsinvesting early in valuable, rare, inimitable and non-substitutable resources are able to enhancetheir survival odds (Doms et al., 1995; Esteve-PŽrez and Ma–ez-Castillejo, 2008; Hall, 1987).Others have noted that developing legitimacy (Starr and MacMillan, 1990; Zimmerman and Zeitz,2002), reducing managerial novelty (Shepherd et al., 2000) and improving learning structures(Stinchcombe, 1965) are all important factors in determining firm survival.In each of these cases, effectively managing HRs is likely to be a key internal element to bettering survival odds (Ensley et al., 2006). To be clear, the HR practices themselves are not likely toserve as a source of competitive advantage, but valuable human capital does (Ployhart et al., 2014;Ployhart and Moliterno, 2011). Internal HR management practices not only provide evidence ofbusiness legitimacy to internal and external stakeholders (Zimmerman and Zeitz, 2002), they alsohelp to effectively marshal resources within the firm. Firms that are able to make trade-offs byinvesting in employee benefits that enhance firm survival odds will be able to more effectivelyleverage their limited financial and HRs. Allocating resources appropriately in this domain provides an important motivational and legitimacy-enhancing signal to employees and investors thatventure management is competent and up to the task of navigating an uncertain environment(Rutherford and Buller, 2007).New venture leaders must make decisions about HR practices by estimating the extent to whichsuch practices will help the firm attract and retain a valuable workforce (Coff and Kryscynski,2011). As such, developing legitimacy is a key consideration for new ventures (De Clercq andVoronov, 2009), particularly in their pursuit of high-quality employees (Rutherford and Buller,2007; Zimmerman and Zeitz, 2002). Individuals with high levels of human capital (i.e. knowledge,skills and abilities) will be less likely to join a firm prior to it establishing some level of legitimacy.Offering employee benefits may be one such way that new ventures can signal legitimacy to potential employees. However, these offerings must be balanced against the significant costs that newventures are likely to incur by offering extensive employee benefits.We leverage existing research to hypothesize that employee benefits will affect firm survivalthrough two basic channels. The first channel is the costs that offering such a benefit will levy uponthe organization. The second channel is through the concept of benefit valence, or the extent towhich both employees and potential employees will value a particular benefit. Valence is considered a key aspect of employee motivation (Vroom, 1964), as employees must value a reward beforeit can stimulate discretionary effort. We apply the concept here to suggest that firms must makechoices by balancing the cost of certain benefits with their potential to draw in a higher quality poolof employees and retain this valuable resource. We theorize that certain benefits will be more 108 International Small Business Journal: Researching Entrepreneurship 36(1)useful in signalling legitimacy to potential applicants and will be more highly valued by employees, thereby holding the power to attract and retain quality new employees.In sum, our theoretical model asserts that (a) new ventures are resource constrained and areunable to offer all potential benefits; (b) as such, managers must make strategic choices in resourceallocation and (c) managers who choose benefit offerings of higher relative value to the costincurred will improve the odds of survival. We apply these theoretical assertions below to severalspecific employee benefit offerings: employee stock options, flexible work arrangements, healthcare, tuition reimbursement, sick days and vacation time.Benefits enhancing survivalAs highlighted above, existing literature paints a mixed picture of the role that employee benefitsplay in employee motivation. Benefit valence is an important consideration that differentiates benefits with the potential to attract and retain valuable employees from those with little power toinfluence employee and applicant choices. Furthermore, we note that the ability of benefits toimprove survival outcomes is dependent upon their ability to attract employees with the requisiteability and motivation to produce outputs that are greater than the cost of implementing the benefitprogramme.The first category of employee benefits likely to affect firm survival are those that offer highvalence, with relatively low levels of cost, particularly costs in the short term. As new ventures arelikely to be resource constrained, conserving cash and managing cash flow become paramountconcerns (Lai et al., 2016; Welsh and White, 1981). Therefore, costly employee benefits will beless advantageous. However, the firm will likely gain from benefits that are perceived as valuableby employees, but require relatively little upfront cost. In particular, we focus upon employee stockoption plans and flexitime arrangements.Employees stock ownership plans (ESOPs) offer employees the opportunity to purchase stock inthe company at a predetermined rate. ESOPs are attractive as they help to build a mindset of ownership within the employee base by aligning agent behaviour with owner expectations (Pendleton,2006; Poutsma et al., 2012), but require little upfront cost (Hand, 2008). Employees who think likeowners will require less monitoring, thereby reducing agency costs, and are more likely to be committed to the success of the organization. While research on employee stock options offers mixedresults, such programmes tend to have the biggest impact on smaller or moderately sized ventures(Kim and Ouimet, 2014; Rosen and Quarrey, 1987; Welbourne and Andrews, 1996). Employees insuch firms have a much clearer line of sight linking their efforts and performance to the success ofthe firm. While employees in larger firms might have a difficult time seeing how their performancecontributes to the stock price of the firm, those in smaller firms will be much more likely to feel likea part of the team and understand their efforts help drive performance.Finally, as valence pertains to the value of the reward, an appreciating option will mean increasedfinancial value for an employee. It bears noting that the day-to-day motivational value of the benefit will vary based on the current market value of the options. At any point in time, the ESOP mayor may not be motivating, per se, but we would expect that in the main offering ESOPs send a valuable signal to the labour market. ESOPs serve as a signal of legitimacy to potential employees andoffer current employees the ability to directly benefit from their inputs. If an individual does welland improves the performance of the firm, they will benefit financially. This is likely to be perceived positively by potential employees, helping the firm to draw a wider pool of applicants andbuild a stronger group of employees. Therefore, theoretically, ESOPs ought to work well in newventures, spurring individuals to offer significant commitment and engagement to the success ofthe firm. The associated low administrative costs mean that ESOPs motivational returns ought to Messersmith et al. 109exceed the costs of implementation, thereby leading to a positive relationship with new venturesurvival.H1a. New ventures offering ESOPs will be more likely to survive over time.A second type of employee benefit that is likely to enhance firm survival is flexible work plans.One of the competitive advantages available to newer firms is the opportunity to be more nimble(Kotha et al., 2011). While employees may not be receiving the level of pay they would garner atmore established businesses (Balkin and Gomez-Mejia, 1987), these challenges can be offset bothby the work offered by new ventures and by the flexible arrangements that might be available.Offering flextime to employees has been linked to lower intent to turnover, lower absenteeism andimproved job satisfaction (Narayanan and Nath, 1982; Pierce and Newstrom, 1983).Many prospective employees, particularly younger people, may bristle at the prospect of working set or standard hours (Ehrhart et al., 2012; Twenge, 2010). Rather, such employees will likelyprefer the autonomy and flexibility of completing work within the framework of the day that theyarrange. Indeed, many tech firms utilize such employment arrangement as a significant benefit toemployees. Offering such programmes in concert with challenging goals is more likely to result insuccessful outcomes.In addition to younger workers, offering flexibility in work is a useful avenue to attract nontraditional employees who have demands outside of work that need to be kept in consideration. Forinstance, people with young families may be interested in the increased flexibility they are availedat a new venture. Even older workers who have retired or are looking for a new challenge in thelatter stages of their career may find the flexible work arrangements, combined with the excitementof a young firm, to be an attractive combination. Therefore, we expect flexible work arrangementsto be a high-valence benefit.Similar to ESOPs, offering flexible work arrangements comes at a relatively small cost toemployers. Notably, offering flexibility and autonomy in work is relatively inexpensive (Coff andKryscynski, 2011). While there may be some coordination challenges, in general, flexible workprogrammes come with very few administrative costs or ongoing payouts. At the same time, flexible work schedules will likely be viewed as a positive signal by employees. Employees selfselecting into a new venture will likely be looking for work arrangements that differ from thosefound in large, established firms. Most importantly, flexibility in more autonomous work arrangements may be critical in the recruitment and retention of ÔsuperstarÕ employees, those in the tail ofthe distribution who produce a disproportionate amount of output. These employees have such agreat impact on the fate of the firm that employers will often create iDeals Ð idiosyncratic deals Ð tobe as flexible as possible in order to keep a superstar content (Aguinis and OÕBoyle, 2014). Havingfound such a flexible model, all employees will likely value (i.e. high valence) the benefit, therebyaiding the firm in attracting and retaining valuable employees.H1b. New ventures offering flextime plans will be more likely to survive over time.Benefits detrimental to survivalWhile certain employee benefits are likely to enhance the survival odds of the firm, it is importantto note that they are not all equivalent with respect to cost or valence. Herein we offer a nuancedview of employee benefits. For instance, many employee benefits carry significant costs for newventures, without significantly improving the ability of the firm to attract and retain employees. 110 International Small Business Journal: Researching Entrepreneurship 36(1)Such benefits are likely to come at a significant cost, but may not be as highly valued by employees. We consider two such benefits here: health benefits and tuition reimbursement.While not all new ventures are in a challenged financial position, a significant percentage ofnew venture managers and entrepreneurs cite cash flow management as a significant issue for theirbusiness (Dunn and Liang, 2015). Consider, for example, that in 2015 in the United States a basicemployee health plan cost employers, on average, $17,545 per employee (Kaiser/HRET). Thesecosts will either need to come out of the companyÕs profit or will be rolled into the price of theproduct/service offered. In either case, the firmÕs competitiveness will be weakened, leading to alower likelihood of survival.As a result of the significant price tag associated with offering healthcare benefits (relative to stockownership or flextime), employers must carefully consider the ability of such programmes to attractand retain quality employees. The answer to the question of Ôdo employees appropriately valuehealthcare benefits and do these benefits outweigh there significant cost?Õ is difficult to answer.Employees at different lifecycle stages will value healthcare benefits differently and employers havea range of options regarding the type, level and quality of healthcare coverage they will offer. Weoffer our argument based on extant research and descriptive information, but wish to highlight thefact that much more work is needed to correctly estimate the perceived valence of healthcare coverage, the utility of offering such coverage and the comparative costs of such offerings.Recent studies in the United States indicate that health insurance is one of the most importantbenefits that employees seek in an employment relationship (Duchon et al., 2000; OÕBrien, 2003;Salisbury and Ostuw, 2000). Furthermore, offering healthcare benefits would clearly be a signal oflegitimacy to potential employees. While many have come to expect health insurance and note itto be an important condition for employment, the ability of such plans to actually motivateemployee action is relatively weak (Mercer WhatÕs Working Survey, 2011). Indeed, some researchevidence suggests that there is not a strong economic benefit to employers for offering employeehealthcare benefits (Buchmueller, 2000; Pauly, 1997).Moreover, the value of healthcare benefits in the specific context of new ventures is less clear.While larger employers are likely to suffer from offering fewer benefits, we theorize that new ventures would not be similarly penalized by the labour market. Employees willing to work for newventures are likely to understand and appreciate the risk that they are taking in working for a lessestablished firm. They are likely to understand that resource constraints will prohibit the firm frominitially offering extensive health benefits, with the understanding that they will be more likely toadopt such benefits once a certain level of success is achieved. In particular, if healthcare benefitsare not properly valued by employees (i.e. low valence) then such firms are not likely to see amotivational boost in the workforce.1 Therefore, we hypothesize:H2a. New ventures offering healthcare plans will be less likely to survive over time.Tuition reimbursement reflects an important benefit offering for many large employers. Thisbenefit allows employees to pursue advanced degrees or specialized knowledge that will benefitthem in their work roles going forward. Broad studies of tuition reimbursement within the UnitedStates indicate that nearly 47% of companies with more than 20 employees offer some form oftuition reimbursement, though the total amount provided is often capped (Lynch and Black, 1998).Interestingly, most firms seem to utilize tuition reimbursement as a means of recruiting and retaining employees (Cappelli, 2004). This is compelling, because from a human capital perspective onewould expect that firms would see tuition reimbursement as a form of general skill enhancement,which is projected to lead to higher levels of turnover (Becker, 1964). BeckerÕs (1964) seminalarticle draws a sharp line between training in general skills and training in firm-specific skills and Messersmith et al. 111notes that the employee, not the employer, should bear the cost of general skills training. Beckerargues that the individual employee reaps the benefits (or rents) from investments in general skillstraining, while both the firm and the employee benefit from firm-specific training.This view is contrasted with much of the literature in HR development, which focuses onenhancements in POS among employees in firms with tuition reimbursement programmes (Bartlett,2001; Pattie et al., 2006). The empirical research in this area offers a nuanced view of the phenomenon. Manchester (2008) finds that investment in tuition reimbursement leads to higher levels ofemployee retention. Similarly, Pattie et al. (2006) find that tuition reimbursement increases POSand ultimately lowers turnover intent; however, employees pursuing degrees in other fields aremore likely to leave the firm. An additional study notes that employees are more likely to leave theorganization once they have completed their graduate degree, though this effect is mitigated ifpromotions follow degree attainment (Benson et al., 2004).Given the somewhat equivocal findings in the literature, the question is raised regarding theefficacy of tuition reimbursement programmes in new ventures. Simply stated, is the benefit worththe cost? Tuition reimbursement carries a considerable price tag for employers. For instance, thecap for tuition reimbursement is often US$ 4000ÐUS$ 5250 per year, per employee (Manchester,2008). This reflects a significant cost and also provides employees with a new set of skills and acredential (degree) with market value outside of the boundaries of the firm. Therefore, on one handthe overall cost of tuition reimbursement may be increased by turnover and replacement costs. Onthe other hand, providing training through tuition reimbursement may enhance the skill level ofemployees and also may increase commitment to the firm. Benson et al. (2004) support a contingency model, in which investments in general human capital (knowledge, skills and abilities)endowments trigger potential turnover, unless the degree attainment is swiftly followed by a promotion. Given the relatively small number of levels in a new venture, it may be difficult to promotesomeone completing an advanced degree. In the case of tuition reimbursement, the new venturemay be paying to develop talent for a larger, competing firm. Therefore, in new ventures, it is challenging to see the motivational benefit of offering tuition reimbursement outweighing the stickerprice and the risk of turnover.H2b. New ventures offering tuition reimbursement plans will be less likely to survive overtime.Common benefitsA third group of employee benefits are those necessary but probably not sufficient for improvingfirm survival odds. These are benefits that are not highly valued by employees, causing low valence;however, the absence of these benefits will make it difficult to attract and retain quality employees.In other words, an employee is unlikely to join a firm because of these types of benefits, but willlikely not join if the benefits are not in place. Reflecting deeper upon motivation theory, these factors would be considered hygiene factors in HerzbergÕs (1959) Two Factor Model of motivation. Inother words, the absence of hygiene factors is dissatisfying to employees, but the presence of thesefactors does not motivate performance (Herzberg, 1959). While employees in new ventures arelikely to understand the lack of extensive healthcare coverage or tuition reimbursement, there arecertain benefits that will be expected, namely paid sick leave and vacation leave.While these benefits are expected, they will be unlikely to provide a motivational benefit asemployees in the modern era will likely view these as rights of employment. In fact, many practitioners already note that employees view sick leave as an entitlement of employment, with the 112 International Small Business Journal: Researching Entrepreneurship 36(1)Department of Labor reporting that 82% of management and professional workers receive sick pay(Peck, 2015). Similarly, the Bureau of Labor Statistics estimate that 84% of all employees in theprivate sector received vacation pay in 2012, with over 90% of full-time employees reporting thatthey receive the benefit of paid vacation time (Van Giezen, 2013). These benefits appear to benearly ubiquitous in the modern workplace, which will make the absence of such benefits problematic for newer firms.Furthermore, such benefits are relatively inexpensive to offer as compared to health insuranceor tuition reimbursement, but would likely lead to recruitment and retention problems should theorganization fail to offer such basic staples of the 21st century workplace. Therefore, they wouldbe classified as low-cost/low valence benefit offerings. In other words, while these benefits do notoffer a motivational boost, not offering them would be considered a dis-satisfier and may hurtemployee motivation. Firms unable to offer these benefits may find it difficult to signal legitimacyto the market place and will be less likely to build the human capital resources necessary for longterm success.H3a. New ventures offering paid sick time will be more likely to survive over time.H3b. New ventures offering paid vacation time will be more likely to survive over time.MethodsDataTo test the proposed association of individual employee benefits on venture survival, we utilize theUS Kauffman Firm Survey (KFS) of newly established firms. Collected by a market research firmfor the Kauffman Foundation (one of the largest entrepreneurship-focused philanthropic organizations in the world), the KFS is arguably one of the most comprehensive studies of ventures startedin the United States. Beginning with a Dun & Bradstreet list of 250,000 firms that first beganoperations in 2004, the market research firm randomly sampled 32,469 ventures. They defined astart-up as any independent business that was established by a single person or a team, or purchased as an existing business or new franchise. Businesses were excluded if they had a federalidentification number, income on Schedule C, or paid either federal Social Security or state unemployment insurance or taxes prior to 2004. The initial sample identified 4928 ventures started in2004 and these ventures were followed over six annual follow-up surveys until 2011.This panel survey is formed by stratifying the sample based on demographic characteristics ofthe owners (based on race and sex) or industry membership (high-tech, medium-, or low-tech). Weuse the confidential KFS data available on the National Opinion Research CentreÕs (NORC) DataEnclave, a private repository housing restricted access microdata which permits a more finegrained analysis compared to the data available to the public. Specifically, we use the survivalanalysis file developed by Farhat and Robb (2014).2 For more detailed information on the inception, collection and dissemination of the KFS, we refer the interested reader to the KFS website(Source: http://www.kauffman.org/what-we-do/research/kauffman-firm-survey-series) and otherstudies that have used the KFS Enclave data (Cassar, 2014).We control for a variety of factors to lower the influence of un-observable effects, specificallyfirm performance, location and ownership characteristics. While excluding many controls wouldlead to a substantially larger sample size, the inferences may not be robust to controlling for avariety of venture-related characteristics. Without applying any filters to the data, based on casewise deletion, our final sample includes a panel of 1012 ventures.Messersmith et al. 113Outcome variableConsistent with extant conceptual and empirical studies of entrepreneurship, our outcome of interest is firm survival (Ucbasaran et al., 2003; Wennberg et al., 2010). The outcome variable is acensored variable indicating if a venture has failed=1, else coded as censored. In the sample, of the1012 ventures, 656 were coded as failed, representing a 64.82% failure rate.PredictorsThe respondents were asked whether they offered Ôstock options or stock ownership plansÕ,ÔAlternative work schedules such as flex time or job sharingÕ, ÔA health insurance plan eitherthrough the business or an associationÕ, ÔTuition reimbursementÕ, Ôpaid sick daysÕ, or Ôpaid vacationÕ, to their full-time employees. If a venture provided a benefit, it was coded 1=Yes, else it wascoded 0=No.ControlsAs race diversity and gender diversity could lead to distinct venture decisions, processes and subsequent performance (Andrevski et al., 2014; Robb and Watson, 2012), we include BlauÕs diversityindices for race and gender. The race included in the measure are American Indian, Asian, Black,Hispanic, Other and White. As survival rates vary by sector, we include whether a venture is in thehigh-tech sector (Colombo et al., 2014).Relationships with the stakeholders in the task environment are critical to venture survival(Cennamo et al., 2012). We include payment practices (variable name in the data: paysc), which isa dollar-weighted measure of payment performance to suppliers based on data reported in the Dunand Bradstreet (D&B) database. The score ranges from 1 to 100 with lower values indicatingpoorer payment performance.The number of active owners, total employees (sum of full-time and part-time employees),number of locations, whether a venture provides product (=1, else=0) or service (=1, else=0;reference category providing both product and service) could also influence the likelihood of survival (Mill‡n et al., 2012; Nambisan and Baron, 2013). We also include whether the venture hasInternet sales (=1, else=0) as such ventures may have distinct strategic and resource managementprocesses. First owner has equity ownership (=1, else=0) and the first ownerÕs amount of equityownership (percentage) are important additional controls that could affect a ventureÕs resourceallocation (Kotha and George, 2012). We control for net profit loss amount, equity and liabilitiesthat could proxy for unobservables driving venture failure. Finally, we include whether the primaryowner is a paid employee (=1, else=0). As location could affect firm performance (Baum andMezias, 1992), we also control for state dummies.ResultsTable 1 lists mean, standard deviation and pairwise correlations based on casewise deletions. Weuse Cox regression to test the proposed hypotheses (Burbidge et al., 1988; Moss et al., 2015).Hypothesis 1a argues that offering stock ownership plans will positively affect survival odds,but is not supported in the model (Model 2: H1a: ?=0.104, p>0.10). Despite the non-significanceof the findings we sought to explore the direction of effects. Figure 1(a) shows that ventures withstock ownership have a higher likelihood of failure. H1b proposed that new ventures offering flextime will be more likely to survive (Model 3: H1b: ?=?0.577, p<0.001), and is supported in theThe results broadly suggest thatstock ownership or tuition reimbursement have no influence on survival, whereas, flextime, healthplan, paid sick leave or vacation offerings lower the hazard of failure.DiscussionDuring early stages of venture development, attracting and retaining employees is the foundationof developing human capital related capabilities. However, providing extensive employee benefitscould increase costs, have limited benefits during early stages, and at times increase the odds offailure. This article utilizes a unique panel dataset to assess the extent to which a variety ofemployee benefits offerings enhance or inhibit firm survival. The results of this article indicate thatfirms offering flexible work arrangements, health plans, paid vacation days and paid sick leaveimproved survival odds, while firms offering stock ownership or tuition reimbursement realize noimprovement in survival odds.Employee benefits represent an important tool for ventures to attract and retain talent (Klaaset al., 2000; Williams and Dreher, 1992). The results of this article support the need to understandboth the costs and returns that employee benefits are expected to provide. Under the guidance ofexisting theories of motivation (Vroom, 1964) we argue that in order for a benefit to have a positiveeffect, it must be valued (i.e. valence) by employees. If a benefit is simply expected as an entitlement of employment, or is similarly not perceived to be useful by employees, then that benefit isunlikely to yield a return for the organization. Yet, if new ventures are able to invest in employeebenefits that carry a relatively small price tag, but retain the potential to motivate employees, thensuch benefits are likely to have a positive effect on firm performance and survival.The results of this article partially support this conceptual argument. In particular, it appears thatnew ventures benefit from offering flexible work arrangement to employees. New ventures may beable to benefit by offering a more informal work space where employees are encouraged to set-uptheir schedules in a manner that fits their lifestyle. This may create a strong employer brand fornon-traditional employees, or younger employees who may be more willing to exchange highersalaries for greater flexibility. The flexibility serves as a positive signal to the labour market, helping the firm to attract and retain quality employees. This allows the new venture, in the parlance ofDe Clercq and Voronov (2009) to both Ôfit in and stand outÕ to build legitimacy.The finding that healthcare benefit offerings are correlated with higher survival odds is animportant finding both practically and theoretically. Many employees seek out employers withstrong healthcare offerings and new ventures offering healthcare seem to be at a survival advantage. This finding runs counter to the hypothesized expectation and may demonstrate that healthcare coverage is becoming a significant concern for employees across a broad spectrum oforganizations. While these employees still may not truly understand or appreciate the finer pointsof the employer-sponsored plan, having the plan in place may be enough to offer signalling andretention benefits that help firms to overcome the significant costs associated with the plan. Inother words, healthcare benefits may not be motivating, but they may be an important signal oflegitimacy that helps to sort higher level human capital into the firm. Alternatively, it may be thatthe absence of healthcare is a significant dis-satisfier to many employees, such that offering a planis a necessary condition for attracting high-quality employees. Furthermore, rising costs and theincreased media and policy attention on healthcare has likely raised this issue to the attention ofemployees. Regardless, future work is necessary to determine the sorting effects of healthcare. Messersmith et al. 119Similarly, higher odds of survival associated with paid sick leave and paid vacation suggest thatpaid days off could be a recruitment and retention tool.The findings on the association between offering healthcare plans and new venture survival isalso relevant to recent policy debates, particularly in the United States. While the debate surrounding the Affordable Care Act (ACA) continues, businesses are faced with making difficult economicchoices regarding the types of benefits that they are willing, or are compelled, to offer. While theACA provisions do not apply to ventures with fewer than 50 employees, those that exceed thisthreshold will be expected to provide health insurance benefits to their employees. This has severalramifications for new venture managers. First, it may be that investing early in healthcare programmes helps to build legitimacy to set the business apart from other competitors with fewer than50 employees. While this is a costly strategy for firms to take, it may lead to an advantage inacquiring human capital in the early stages of venture growth. Second, it suggests that once theemployee limit is reached, offering health insurance will not place the business at a cost disadvantage, as competitors will face similar regulations. Clearly more research is needed to best understand this relationship and the inflection point at which offering health insurance benefits no longeroffer a human capital return, but this article offers preliminary evidence that health insurance is notdetrimental to survival.Interestingly, this article did not find a positive effect for firms offering stock ownership.This finding runs counter to much existing scholarship on ESOPs (Cardon and Stevens,2004). Given the nature of ESOP in reducing agency costs and promoting ownership via relatively small costs, it was expected that firms offering ESOPs would have better survival rates.However, the results of the analysis indicate that the opposite is true. This may add furthersupport to research indicating that ESOPs may not always be valuable. For instance, a recentstudy highlights that ESOPs may lead to entrenchment strategies and cause small firms toinvest less in innovation through research and development (Gamble, 2000). This article highlights the fact that risk aversion on the part of employees who have now become managers, leadsto less risk-taking. Future work is necessary to theoretically and empirically examine the roleof ESOPs in management decision-making, risk-taking and ultimately in delivering returns toshareholders, including the employees. It is likely that important contextual features are influential regarding the value of ESOPs to new venture survival and performance. It may be thatcertain industries, such as high-tech may benefit from ESOPs, while firms in less human capitalintensive industries may not benefit from offering stock option plans. Additional work on theseimportant moderating influences is needed.Taken more broadly, the results of this article fit within existing discussions of employmentpractices in new ventures and in smaller firms (Cardon, 2003; Lai et al., 2017; Messersmith andWales, 2011; Verreynne et al., 2011). Research in this area is beginning to develop a deeper understanding of the role that HR systems may play in helping to build stronger human capital resources.This article adds an additional element to this discussion to better understand the trade-offsbetween employment costs and the benefits incurred by various practices. For those firms seekingan incremental approach, this article offers guidance on which practices to first make investmentsin and which to delay until firmer footing is secured. We call for additional research to continue toexplore the temporal nature of benefit practice adoption, with a more nuanced understanding of thetrade-offs between costs and benefits.This article also offers a broader framework by which to judge investments in HR managementpractices in early-stage ventures. While entrepreneurs and new business owners are likely conversant with cost-benefit analysis, it can often be difficult to measure the ÔbenefitÕ of HR practices andpolicies. This findings stresses the importance of the motivational and signalling properties ofpractices that help to attract and retain quality employees. Focusing exclusively on the initial cost 120 International Small Business Journal: Researching Entrepreneurship 36(1)of investing in employee benefits may be short sighted in terms of the development of human capital resources within the firm.While we did not complete an in-depth utility analysis, this does set the stage for future workthat might more readily quantify the benefit of certain employment practices. This specifically asksnew venture managers to weigh the ability of a practice to signal legitimacy to help sort in qualityemployees and also to better understand the valence of the benefits offered. These factors need tobe meaningfully combined and weighed against the cost of implementing new practices. We havetaken a first step in this direction, but more refined work in the future would be able to assess thetrue economic value of human capital in new ventures and the practices that help to build this critical resource.Finally, this article also contributes to a broader discussion regarding the role and effect ofimplementing HR practices in small and new firms (i.e. Cardon and Stevens, 2004; Chadwicket al., 2013; Messersmith and Wales, 2011; Way, 2002). Ultimately new ventures must make critical strategic choices regarding where and when to invest their limited tangible and intangibleresources (Chadwick et al., 2013). Chadwick et al. (2013) highlight the burden that administeringHR systems may place on the critical resource of managerial attention. Managing employee benefits may constrain the time and attention of new venture managers, raising the importance ofmaking wise selections in determining which HR practices to implement. In sum, this article contributes to a broader stream of studies in HR management that seeks to understand both the costsof implementing HR systems in new ventures and the benefits that firms are likely to accrue fromthese systems.Limitations and conclusionWhile this article has a number of strengths, there are still several limitations that need to be considered when evaluating the results. While we theorize about benefit valence and the ability ofcertain practices to attract high-quality employees relative to their perceived cost, we were unableto directly measure employee valence in regard to specific benefits. While we expect that the ability to attract employees, and the quality of those applicants attracted to the new venture is a maincausal link between the benefits offered and the outcomes achieved, we were unable to directlymeasure this in this article. Further investigation is necessary to determine if the theoretical linkages presented above remain empirically valid. This is especially important given the equivocalnature of the findings.In addition, this article is based on new ventures based in the United States. The benefits contextwill likely vary dramatically based on the employee policies of a given country. While the underlying theory underpinning the model is likely to translate, the results of this article may not readilygeneralize to contexts where more benefits are required to be offered or where certain benefits areoffered by the state rather than through employers. Additional research is needed beyond the UScontext to test the external validity of the findings.It is also important to note that while benefit valence is likely to generalize to many employees,individual perceptions will vary (Coff and Kryscynski, 2011). One employeeÕs valued benefit maynot Ômove the needleÕ for another employee. Again, we argue in the main and consider this to be afirm-level study, but future work is needed at the individual level to tease out these effects. In addition, we focus on a relatively small number of employee benefits. Additional employee benefitsshould also be considered in future research.This article also relies upon data that are largely binary in nature, with the presence or absenceof an employee benefit being the primary measure. While this provides evidence of a benefitÕs Messersmith et al. 121existence, it does not tell the full story of implementation scope. Future investigations focusedmore heavily on implementation are necessary to continue to advance knowledge in this domain.In conclusion, making important investment decisions in regard to human capital is an important stepping-stone in the path of survival and growth for new ventures. This article highlights thepotential motivational properties, as well as, the costs of popular employee benefit offerings. Theresults support a differentiated approach where new venture managers are well served by investingin policies with high motivational potential, but relatively low near-term costs. In other words,firms that make wise trade-offs in employee benefit offerings will benefit by receiving greaterÔbang for the buckÕ.AcknowledgementsThe authors thank the editor, Professor Claire Leitch, and the two anonymous referees for their excellentcomments and suggestions.FundingThe author(s) disclosed receipt of the following financial support for the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: Portions of this research received financial support from Ewing Marion KauffmanFoundation.Notes1. It bears noting that the data for this article was sampled prior to the full implementation of the AffordableCare Act (ACA) in the United States. This significant chance in the regulatory environment is likely tohave consequences that are beyond the scope of this article, but are worthy of future consideration whenthe provisions of the ACA have been fully implemented.2. The file name is ÔLongitudinal_Long_MI_Survival_Ready.dtaÕ.3. Although the direction of effect changes from model 7 to model 8 for the effect of paid vacation, it possibly may be due to shared correlation among the practices. All the remaining figures are plotted basedon estimates from the model 8, except for Figure 2(f), which is plotted based on estimates from model 7.