Have you ever heard the old cliche, Your employees are the backbone of your company? Well, figuratively speaking, its true! To be successful, employers must assure their employees a good quality of work life (QWL). Quality of work life, having good supervision, good working conditions, good pay and benefits, and an interesting, challenging, and rewarding job. High quality is sought through an employee relations philosophy that encourages the use of QWL efforts, which are systematic attempts by an organization to give workers greater opportunities to affect their jobs and their contribution to the organizations overall effectiveness. That is, proactive managers and HR departments find ways to empower employees so that they draw on their brains and wits, usually by getting the employees more involved in the decision-making process.1 Actually, employee satisfaction and involvement can be accomplished in a variety of ways. Research has shown that, if your employees are happy and satisfied in the workplace, they will usually be more motivated, more productive, and have positive self-esteem and improved morale.


Many of today's workers are experiencing great difficulty trying to juggle both work and family responsibilities. Because so many employees are single parents or members of dual-income families, often there is no one available at home during working hours to care for the family. Therefore, a number of companies have begun to institute work and family programs as part of a totally integrated employee benefits system in an effort to help employees cope with these problems. Examples of such programs are as follows:


The Los Angeles Department of Water and Power instituted the following programs:3


reduced cost for child care
care for mildly ill children
parenting support groups
a beeper-alert program (in which employees are loaned beepers when they have an imminent family emergency)
RJR Nabisco has a time-off program in which parents can take time off to accompany their children on the first day of school or to attend parent-teacher conferences.4 Stride Rite instituted an interesting concept referred to as an Intergenerational Center (that is a day care for children and elder dependents of employees).5 In addition to the programs listed, many organizations now offer nontraditional work arrangements, such as telecommuting, flextime and job sharing, to help workers cope with their personal and family-related responsibilities.6 Most successful organizations realize that, generally speaking, employee satisfaction equals success.


Employers beware! Assuming it is economically feasible, organizations of every size should make every effort to offer their employees a totally integrated benefits system, which should encompass family-friendly benefits. Such work and family programs often make good business sense. By helping employees balance work and family responsibilities, companies can increase their overall productivity, reduce absenteeism, and better retain valued employees. For instance, as the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power found that its work and family program reduced turnover and improved recruitment, it estimates that the program yields a return of $10 for each dollar invested. 7


It has been found that even organizations with limited resources are working hard to allow their employees the opportunity to have what is referred to as a totally integrated benefit system. A totally integrated system permits the employee to strike a proper balance between work and family life. Needless to say, having a totally integrated benefit system is definitely becoming the wave of the future in both the private and public sector. In addition, some employers are finding that being a family friendly organization is not only the right thing to do, but it also may be critical to the organizational culture and its viability. Many employers are starting to realize that they are better able to remain competitive in a globally competitive market by being family friendly and by offering their employees a totally integrated benefit system. Most employers are better able to attract, retain and motivate their employees, and finding such an approach may actually give employers a competitive edge in the new millennium.


The following is a list of examples and ways in which employee satisfaction and involvement can be accomplished:


autonomous work teams, also referred to as self-directed or leaderless work teams
alternative work schedules which may encompass flextime, job sharing, condensed workweeks and telecommuting
employee stock option plans in which employees share a fractional ownership interest in the organization
participative management (which allows employees to have input in the decision-making process in the workplace)
job autonomy
employee assistance or support programs, commonly known as EAP programs, which help employees cope with concerns ranging from personal or family problems to financial concerns
family leave
suggestion systems
pay-for-knowledge and tuition-reimbursement programs
gainsharing
adequate health care coverage
performance appraisals
child care
elderly care
job security
resource and referral services
Good Quality of Work Life (QWL)
Research has shown, A wide range of both internal and external factors affect an employees level of satisfaction. In fact, a recent study of 3,351 U.S. employees found that workplace support was the most important factor affecting job satisfaction among respondents.8 Workplace support in this context refers to policies and actions such as flexible schedules and providing child care, that make employees feel supported by the organization. The second most important factor mentioned was job quality as measured by autonomy, meaningfulness opportunities for learning, advancement and job security. 9


One may be inclined to ask, What is, and how do you measure, job satisfaction? Job satisfaction can be defined as, the favorableness of employee attitudes toward their jobs. Research shows employees are likely to be satisfied with their jobs when employees: enjoy their work; ( 2) have a realistic opportunity to advance within the organization; ( 3) like the people they deal with; ( 4) like and respect their supervisors; and ( 5) believe their pay is fair.10 The organizational reward system often has a significant impact on the level of employee job satisfaction; however, job satisfaction and motivation are not synonymous.11 Motivation is a drive to perform, whereas job satisfaction reflects the employees attitude toward, or happiness with, the job situation. Therefore, the organizational reward system can influence both job satisfaction and employee motivation. The reward system affects job satisfaction by making the employee more or less comfortable as a result of the rewards received. The reward system influences motivation primarily through the perceived value of the rewards and their contingency on performance. 12


As previously mentioned, one of the most prevalent concepts used to create a good quality of work life is employee involvement. Employee involvement is a variety of techniques that are used to enable employees to participate in the decision-making processes that affect their working environment. Integrity and trust are important aspects of successful participative initiatives. The purpose of involving employees in the public sector in the decision-making processes relates primarily to morale, productivity, and employee satisfaction.


Job autonomy, on the other hand, can be defined as having responsibility for the resulting effects of ones own work and/or accomplishments. One method in which job autonomy can be created is through autonomous work teams. The philosophy behind any type of work team is that teams can contribute to improved performance by identifying and solving work-related problems. The basic idea behind this concept is to motivate employees by having them participate in decisions that affect them and their work.13 Self-directed work teams are teams of employees who accomplish tasks within their areas of responsibility without direct supervision. Each team makes its own job assignments, plans its own work, keeps records, obtains supplies, and makes selection decisions in regard to new members in the work unit.14


Recent surveys predict that as many as 40 percent of U.S. employees will be participating in self-directed teams by the year 2000.15 Most companies that use self-directed work teams usually incorporate some type of group incentive pay based on the performance of the respective work team.16 To be effective, autonomous work teams must be mutually accepted by management and employees. Such innovative approaches have a tendency to boost the morale of employees. Managers should oversee employees and intervene only when it is absolutely essential. Further, by utilizing participative management in the public sector, employees have a tendency to be more accepting of managements concepts; there is more cooperation between management and employees, since there usually exist few, if any, complaints or grievances. Generally, in successful participative management programs, substantial benefits exist, including decreased absenteeism, heightened job satisfaction, low turnover rates, meaningful employment, high motivation, and improved attitudes toward organizational goals.


Recently, I conducted a survey involving approximately 100 of my students. Most of the students majors are in Industrial Labor Relations with emphasis on management. The students surveyed consisted of traditional and non-traditional students at the undergraduate level. Approximately 80 percent of the students surveyed were traditional students, roughly between the ages of 18-25, who are attending college on a full-time basis, and most of whom are either living at home, on campus, or in university housing, and receiving parental assistance. Most of the traditional and non-traditional students either work full-time or part-time in management positions. Approximately 20 percent of the students surveyed were non-traditional students, most of whom were over the age of 30. Most of the non-traditional students are either presently married or had been married at some point in their lives, and many either have children or plan to have children in the near future. For the most part, the non-traditional students are either returning students or students who first raised their children, then decided to return to college to pursue a degree. As previously mentioned, some of the non-traditional students are attending the university part-time and working full-time as managers/supervisors. Some own their own businesses, while others are attending school full-time or are stay-at-home parents.


One of the questions I asked was, From an employees perspective, how do you measure employee satisfaction?O The survey consisted of a list of categories that relate to employee satisfaction. The students were asked to comment on these issues and to rate them on a scale of 1-10ten being most important, and one being least important from an employees perspective.


The results of the survey are as follows:


               Very Important          Somewhat Important
   Good benefits                95%                     5%
   Job security                 80%                    20%
   Good pay                    100%                     0%
   Job recognition/praises      75%                    25%
   Family-friendly benefits     85%                    15%


      Others
      1.  Educational opportunities
      2.  Opportunity for advancement
      3.  Flextime
      4.  Job safety
      5.  Responsibility
      6.  A challenging and exciting career/job
      7.  Receptive working environment/ bosses
      8.  Low stress factor
      9.  Enjoyable working environment
      10. Good quality of worklife
      11. Job autonomy
According to the students responses, all of the students felt benefits such as medical, life and dental are important. However, since some of the traditional students still live at home with their parents and are currently covered under their parents insurance plans, these benefits are not a major concern at this time. Although, admittedly, they stated that once they reach a certain age and/or move out of their parents homes or decide to get married and start their own families, these benefits would perhaps become even more important. In addition, most, if not all, of the non-traditional students feel that job security is an essential part of employee satisfaction. However, some of the traditional students feel that job security at this point in their lives is, only somewhat important. Although, the traditional students stated that they could definitely see the importance of job security increasing with age.


Based on most of the students comments, traditional and non-traditional family-friendly benefits such as child care, elder care, etc., are important as they relate to employee satisfaction. However, approximately 15 percent of the traditional students responded that, since they do not currently have children, these benefits are only somewhat important. Although, the traditional students who stated that, family-friendly benefits are only somewhat important also stated that they could see how these benefits could be quite beneficial in the future. In regard to job recognition/praises, 75 percent of the students surveyed felt this was important, while 25 percent felt that, if they received good pay and benefits, that would be sufficient. The last category listed was entitled other. Under this particular category, the students were requested to list anything else they could think of which, in any way, related to employee satisfaction.




Stability and Responsibility
By being involved, public sector employees can feel a sense of stability and responsibility toward organizational goals. If management sincerely desires to implement a program involving participative management, managers should introduce programs that genuinely reflect their intention to treat employees as though they are truly appreciated, as well as experts at their jobs. In effect, employee involvement usually allows employees to utilize his or her expertise. When management does this, a Pygmalion effect may result, which will hopefully lead to a Galatea effect. A Pygmalion effect occurs when people live up to the high expectations that others have of them. A Galatea Effect occurs when a person becomes self-motivated. In essence, if management assumes that people want to contribute to the organization and tries to inspire them by seeking techniques to tap into that expertise or wealth of knowledge, the end results can be, improved productivity, better decision-making, and high quality of work life.




The Productivity Goal
According to the Fairness, Equity and Dignity (F.E.D.) principle, as coined by Dr. Kent Curtis, a professor and a scholar, participative management requires managers to treat their employees fairly, equitably, and with dignity. The primary goal of participative management is to help employees and management operate in the most effective manner. It is imperative that employees become familiar with profits and losses, the cost of products and services, quality, and customer satisfaction. Thus, perhaps it is necessary to require extensive cross-training and shared authority for everyone involved. By using such an approach, the employee may no longer be confined to a narrowly defined job, which could ultimately relieve boredom and fatigue.




Everyone is a Quality Inspector
Managers should encourage employees to identify and solve problems in the working environment and to make suggestions. In the past, for the most part, identifying and solving problems was almost exclusively a function of management. Two ways to accomplish such tasks are through suggestion systems and pay-for-knowledge programs. Suggestion systems are techniques used to assess and implement employees ideas. If, for example, an employees idea is accepted and utilized, the employee will receive recognition and, usually, a monetary reward. Suggestion systems reward employees for money-producing ideas and are used extensively throughout the United States. In fact, approximately 80 percent of the nations 500 largest corporations have suggestion systems.O 17 Using pay-for-knowledge programs in the public sector will allow employees to receive monetary incentives for newly acquired knowledge and/or skills. This type of program allows an employee to receive compensation based upon the employees comparable worth to the organization. Basically, it is a compensation approach that grants employees pay increases for acquiring new job-related skills. The use of skill-based pay is based on the assumption that workers who acquire additional skills can make a greater contribution to the organization and, consequently, should be paid more. Firms utilizing skill-based pay will thus grant employees pay increases for acquiring new, job-related skills. The employer also benefits due to the employees mastery of new skills and increased staffing flexibility. Additional advantages of pay-for-knowledge programs include continuous growth for the individual, as well as growth to the organization. There can also be a reduction in job burnout and lower absenteeism, as a result, resulting in a lower turnover rate.


An example of a skill-based program is one that is used at General Mills. A skill-based pay program is usually implemented as follows:


Identify tasks that need to be performed.
Determine what skills are needed to perform the tasks.
Develop tests or measures to determine whether an individual has learned the skills.
Price each skill-based on its value to the organization.
Communicate to employees the skills they can learn and how much they will be paid for learning them.
Skill-based pay systems provide workers with a financial incentive to increase their skill levels. For instance, public school teachers often pursue a masters degree when provided with the incentive of a pay raise. When workers acquire additional skills, the company also benefits, because earning a masters degree, presumably, makes one a better teacher. When used in production environments, skill-based pay programs broaden workers skills, so that the company can gain greater flexibility in work scheduling. For example, when several people know how to operate a particular piece of equipment, the organization can easily find a substitute when the usual equipment operator is absent from work. 19


American Airlines estimates that, in six years, its suggestion system, called IdeAAs in Action, saved the company nearly $250 million, and that employee participation grew from six to 20 percent over this same time period.20 Most suggestion systems offer cash incentives for employee suggestions that positively affect the organization. Examples include suggestions resulting in increased profits, reduced costs, or improved customer relations. In addition to the obvious organizational benefits, a suggestion plan can provide a means for making employees feel more a part of the organization and for improving communications between management and employees. The key to having a successful suggestion system is to clearly communicate exactly how the system works. Employees must believe that each and every suggestion system will be fairly evaluated. Modern suggestion systems generally involve specific procedures for submitting ideas and utilize committees to review and evaluate suggestions.21


It may appear that participative management requires a great deal of time and effort; however, the benefits far outweigh the amount of effort required. Actually, the implementation process could become somewhat effortless. Keep in mind that most managers want to be perceived as leaders and trainers, rather than as bosses and dictators. Some of the most frequently cited tasks for which managers should assume responsibility under the participative management system include disciplining employees when necessary, administering performance appraisals, and controlling budgetary matters. The more traditional approach that some managers have utilized over the years is the paternalism approach.O This concept states that, Management knows best.O Management, on the other hand, should not automatically assume they know best.


A good quality of work life allows employees the opportunity to make certain decisions about the design of their workplace, the processes to be used, and the resources they need to do their jobs most effectively. In fact, an employee who has performed a particular job over several years may be in a better position to make this determination. To be effective, good quality of work life cannot be used as a device by management to disengage unions or to keep unions out of the workplace. Thus, many successful organizations have established a policy to encourage and enable all employees to become involved in, and contribute to, the organization.




Tuition Reimbursement
A working environment should be created in which all employees can continue to achieve his or her personal goals. At the same time, they should be allowed to focus their energies toward organizational goals, which have been clearly defined and deeply ingrained by management. One of the ways to accomplish this is through a tuition reimbursement program. Tuition reimbursement can be beneficial to the employer and the employee. Generally, tuition reimbursement programs compensate employees for completed coursework relating to the employees job. Normally, the amount of reimbursement is contingent upon the grade actually received by the employee. The employer can also benefit, because the employee is utilizing knowledge and skills he or she has already acquired in the working environment.




Job Security
I often ask the question, On a scale of one to three, which would you rate as being most important to youjob security, salary, or job recognition?O Oftentimes, the overwhelming response is job security. However, a good salary response is very closely aligned to that of job security. Actually, some more successful organizations are using performance-based payO to motivate their employees by linking the employees pay to his or her performance. It is quite apparent why employees want job security, recognition or praises, and to be paid fairly. In fact, if employers want to minimize their turnover rates, they must be sure their employees are receiving pay in accordance with the employees comparable worth to the organization, which is perceived as being equitable under the equity theory.


Research has shown that millions of Americans are living from paycheck to paycheck and are literally just one paycheck away from being homeless. I once read where someone stated, To have a lot of money can be boring, but not having money can be quite terrifying. As the old saying goes, money cant buy you happiness; however, the lack of money can surely cause one to be quite miserable. It is unfortunate that many employees do not realize that when you are an employee-at-willas opposed to an employee under contractwhich falls under the Employee-at-Will Doctrine, basically, you are an employee only for so long as the employer wishes to retain you. In other words, one can literally be hired or fired at a whim, with or without cause, as long as the employer is not in violation of certain limited exceptions. When I tell people this to people, they look at me in shock or utter amazement. However, this process works both ways: under this particular doctrine, the employee will remain an employee for an employer only for so long as the employee chooses to work. For example, exceptions to this rule are that there cannot exist an implied contract, nor can the employer be found to have engaged in discriminatory practices.


Recently, the courts have begun to imply that a contract exists under certain circumstances and on a case-by-case basis. Take for example a potential employee who relocates, totally uproots his or her spouse and children, and leaves his or her present place of employment. Chances are, in most cases, the average person of sound mind would not simply uproot the family, relocate, and leave the current place of employment, unless certain implied promises had been made by a potential employer. Thus, there may exist an implied contract, which of course remains to be proven.




Performance Appraisals
Another important aspect of employment, as it relates to job satisfaction, is the performance appraisal. A performance appraisal provides individuals or groups information pertaining to on-the-job performance. In the case of autonomous work teams, one of the many reasons for providing such periodic reviews is to improve the individuals, as well as the organizations overall effectiveness. At the end of the performance appraisal, an interview between the employee and the evaluator usually takes place. Therefore, to have a productive evaluation, the person doing the evaluating should keep in mind that it is not necessary to make the interview into a fault-finding session; rather, it should be conducted in a manner which lends itself to problem solving.


In an effort to minimize job dissatisfaction and high turnover rates, employers must ensure poorly conceived appraisal systems do not exist, since this can cause morale and turnover problems. Employees can get quite emotional and discouraged if they receive ratings that they perceive as being inaccurate and unfair. Most employees believe that rewards such as pay raises and promotions should be given on the basis of merit or past performance. Individuals may become quite upset when some other basis (e.g., favoritism) is used, and they may begin to look elsewhere for employment. 22 On the other hand, an effective appraisal system can help employers retain their employees, especially the best ones. Why? Because such employees desire to work in an atmosphere that is fair, progressive and dynamic, and an effective performance appraisal system fosters this perception.23


Perhaps the key for employers is to catch their employees doing something right and to give them recognition and/or reward them accordingly. The bottom line is employees need and want feedback. Most employees who are said not to be performing up to par when given the opportunity, will remedy the problem, or at least attempt to rectify the situation. As employers, it is important to realize that employees want challenging and meaningful careers. In addition, employees want to feel that employers recognize them as assets to their organizations.




Gainsharing
Different companies know gainsharing by different names, such as performance sharing, productivity incentive or as profit-sharing in the private sector. These programs generally refer to incentive plans that involve employees in a common effort to improve organizational performance, and are based on the concept that the resulting incremental economic gains are shared among employees and the company. While many variants of gainsharing exist, they are all based on the same principles. First, the company must be able to measure its output; then, when employees reduce labor costs by increasing productivity, they share in the savings.24


One survey of 223 companies using some type of gainsharing reported that 95 of the responding companies had custom-designed plans.25 Studies have shown that the average gainsharing system raises productivity 25 percent, and that quality also increases.26 The U.S. General Accounting Office reports that firms with gainsharing programs experience lower turnover and absenteeism, fewer grievances, and improved labor-management relations.27 Flexible Work Schedules


About 20 percent of federal employers and 13 percent of private sector employers allow flextime.28 When using flextime, employers must ensure that the office is covered. A sufficient number of people must be available at the worksite when needed.29 Flextime allows employees the option of choosing their own work hours, with certain exceptions. A basic flextime system allows employees to work the same number of hours each day, although their hours may vary. For example, a typical schedule usually allows employees to commence work between what are referred to as core hoursO6:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m.and to conclude their workdays between the hours of 3:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m.


Perhaps the most important feature of flextime is that employees are permitted to strike a balance between their personal or family lives and their careers. Such work and family programs often make good business sense. By helping employees balance work and family responsibilities, companies can increase their overall productivity, reduce absenteeism, and better retain valued employees.30 For instance, the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power found that its work and family program reduced turnover and improved recruitment; it estimates that the program yields a return of $10 for each dollar invested.31


Job sharing, telecommuting, and condensed workweeks are also approaches used to attract qualified applicants who want to work, but are not in a position to work a set 40 hours per week. The job sharing system usually allows two people who are working part-time to split the duties of one full-time job, and each employee is paid accordingly. Under the condensed workweek, the number of hours worked per day may be increased and the number of days in the workweek may decrease (known as 4/40). Other variations of the condensed workweek may include reducing the total hours worked to 36 or 38 hours.32 Telecommuting, on the other hand, allows employees to work at home or while traveling. Usually, this employee, with todays information technology, is still able to interact and communicate with those persons at the office. Many employees, if given the opportunity to modify their work schedules and allowed to have some input, will not be forced to make a choice between career and family. Rather, they will have no problem juggling the twocareer and family life.




Employee Assistance Programs
Employee assistance programs (EAPs) are designed to help employees with a wide variety of problems that ultimately interfere with job performance. Generally speaking, these problems are related to stress, personal, emotional or financial concerns, or family difficulties. The main focus of EAP programs is to help employees resolve their problems, at least to the extent that the problems are affecting the employees in the workplace environment. Treatment may come in the form of in-house assistance, counseling, or referrals outside the company. Most public sector employers who can economically provide such programs will do so primarily because they value their employees.




Dual-Career Families
According to data collected in the Current Population Survey (CPS), a monthly sample survey of about 50,000 households that provides data on national employment and unemployment, the number of dual-worker families in which both the husband and wife worked grew by 352,000 between 1996 and 1997. While the number of traditionalO familiescouples in which only the husband was employeddeclined by 145,000. In addition, the labor force participation rate of mothers increased from 70.8 percent in 1996 to 71.9 percent in 1997, as the rate for unmarried mothers (single, widowed, divorced, or separated) increased by 3.2 percentage points to 75.0 percent. Among mothers with children under a year old, 57.9 percent were working or looking for work in 1997, compared with 54.3 percent the year before.33 The next logical question, Is it essential for both parents to work outside the home?O The point is that sometimes dual-career families are based upon necessity. While some may prefer having a dual-career family for reasons related to future financial stability, others may prefer dual-career families in an effort to provide a stable home and/or be able to afford to provide a college education for their children.


Regardless of the reason, some families may decide that at least one of the parents should stay at home. Some are willing to sacrifice a more affluent lifestyle, while others may have difficulty adjusting to a different lifestyle. Therefore, one way employers can help to alleviate the problems associated with dual-career families is to allow their employees the option of choosing one of various work schedule modifications, such as flextime or job sharing with other employees.




Family-Friendly Benefits: The Totally Integrated System between Work and Family
Family-Friendly Organizational Checklist


The following is a checklist of some of the benefits employers can offer their employees in an effort to be family-friendly and, at the same time, remain globally competitive.


   Flexible work schedules
   On-site/near-site child care
   Sick-child care
   Dependent care reimbursement account
   Homework assistance programs
   Extended leave care
   Elderly care
   Telecommuting
   Time-off benefits for childrens school activities
   Employee Assistance Programs
   Tuition reimbursement


Family Care Benefits: Child Elderly Care, Child Care
According to research, many employers are beginning to realize that, even when an employee is physically at work, mentally they are not detachedO from family concerns and responsibilities. Rather, more and more employers are realizing that work and family are interdependent. In fact, family matters can have a great impact on work performance and successes in life. One reason why there is increasing concern about family issues is due, in part, to the increase of more women entering the workforce. According to projections by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, women will account for approximately 48 percent of the workforce by 2005.


A relatively new non-health benefit employers can provide in an effort to create employee satisfaction is child care. Child care is increasingly being referred to as the benefit of the 90s.O In fact, child care is primarily in high demand among single-parent and dual-career families, both of which have certainly become a predominant phenomenon in the U.S. workforce. Child care benefits can take on many forms. The most common features include on-site day care facilities, discount vouchers or financial subsidies, and sick-child care.


Today, it is not uncommon for at least one parent to stay at home to care for the children. Traditionally, some women have previously remained at home to care for the children and the household, but today some of them not only need, but choose, to work outside the home. Recognizing that child care is a shared responsibility, more and more employers are providing child care assistance to their employees. In fact, a survey of more than 10,000 firms employing 10 or more workers showed that 63 percent of all employers offer some benefits, schedule help, or other services relating to child care. Thus, in order to remain competitive, firms need to offer a variety of options to meet employee needs. 34


Some employers provide on-site day care at no cost to the employee or for a moderate fee. This benefit has proven to be an effective recruitment aid, since, by providing such a service, employers can reduce absenteeism. A national survey conducted by Hewitt Associates, a consulting firm, found that 85 percent of the employers surveyed extended some form of child care benefits to their employees, 13 percent offered sick/emergency child care programs and 10 percent provided child care centers.O35 By utilizing such innovative approaches in the public sector, the employer will also benefit by enabling employees to better manage their time. This results in more productive employees. For many years, child care arrangements were an exclusive function of the family. Today, however, on-site and near-site day care are the more popular forms of child care benefits.


Another common child care benefit offered by many employers today is the dependent care reimbursement account. This type of account allows employees to pay for qualified child care expenses with pretax dollars. Hoffman-La Roche has a day care center only one block from its plant located in Nutley, New Jersey. The facility has several classrooms and uses innovative teaching techniques. Other companies that offer on-site day care premises are Baptist Hospital of Miami, and Ben and Jerrys Homemade Ice Cream.36 By 1994, there were more than 2,500 employer-sponsored, on-site or near-site day care centers in operation. 6 Motorola responded to these pressures by selling a piece of land near one of its Arizona plants to a child care company, while American Bankers Insurance added a nursery and an elementary school that teaches grades one and two at its company headquarters.O37




Elderly Care
Today, in addition to caring for their own children, many employees are finding themselves within the sandwich generation. In essence, these employees have to take on the responsibilities of caring for their elderly parents and raising small children. It is quite apparent how such responsibilities can become overwhelming, particularly when an employee is caring for an ill, elderly parent; his or her own children; and trying to pursue a career. Realizing this concern, some employers have gone one step further by extending these services not only to the employees children, but to their disabled and elderly dependents as well. Research has shown that of employees over the age of 30, 28 percent currently spend an average of 10 hours a week giving care to an older relative. For a significant fraction, such a commitment equals a second job. In fact, some 12 percent of workers who care for aging parents are forced to quit their jobs to do so. 38


Typically, child care and the care of elderly and disabled dependents have been viewed as being outside the concern of the business world. Rather, they have been considered primarily the responsibility of the worker, and the employee alone has had to bear the expense and arrange for such care. As a result, an employee can be constantly subjected to distractions such as missing work for emergency reasons and taking children and elderly dependents to the doctor and the hospital. Simply trying to stay focused can become a nightmare. Lost productivity due to absenteeism of those caring for elders can cost a 1,000 employee company without an elder care program as much as $400,000 per year. TransAmerica Corporation reported that 1600 missed workdays per year were attributed to employees who were caring for an elderly relative for an annual loss to the corporation of $250,000. For larger companies, these costs can run into the millions. 39




Health Care
Another major concern that cannot be ignored is health care. Over the years, health care has become one of the fastest growing employee benefits costs. This, in part, is due to longevity, much needed medical care, and increased costs. I often ask the question, What is wealth if you do not have good health? Unfortunately, people have been faced with the issue of having to sell their homes and possessions, or, even worse, have faced death, simply because they lost their jobs unexpectedly, and/or because they have inadequate health care coverage.


Employers with 20 or more employees are mandated by law to continue medical coverage of an employee for at least 18 months following termination, whether that termination is a retirement or for some other reasons. According to the Comprehensive Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA), the employee is still responsible for paying the premium, along with, perhaps, a two percent administrative cost. Some employers have extended the 18 months required under COBRA; however, even though the premium may be at the employers cost, paying the premium over an extended period of time may be impossible, considering the person is no longer employed.




Summary
The Struggle Continues
The question still remains, Should an employee be forced to choose between his or her family and career? There are many organizations today that offer totally integrated employee benefit systems that encompass family-friendly benefits. Then there are others, assuming it is economically feasible, that will have no problem changing their organizations to incorporate totally integrated employee benefits. Today, there are many people who have spent most of their adult lives pursuing higher education, their careers, and successes in life. They even put off starting their own families for this reason. Then, they find themselves not only having to raise and care for their own children, they have to find a way to pursue their careers, and at the same time, take care of their elderly parents. Having this added stress can be quite devastating, and even after obtaining an education and material possessions, the struggle continues. Undoubtedly, taking care of small children and aging, ill parents, and working at a career can become overwhelming and could take its toll on anyone. These employees could otherwise be valuable assets to the company; however, the struggle to deal with work/family issues on a daily basis and stay focused on the job is bound to detract from ones workplace efficiency.


This alone confirms why many employees have high regard for job security and family- friendly organizations, and why more and more employers are striving to be family-friendly. If an employee has to constantly worry about the care of his or her loved ones, he or she can hardly be expected to be very effective, productive, or focused during the workday. Employers! Stop and reflect for a moment. Ask yourselves how productive and loyal your employees are, and how happy and satisfied they are in their working environment. Do your employees feel like they go to work in order to live a comfortable lifestyle, or have they begun to feel like they live simply to go to work? Do you have a high turnover rate? What do you do to offer your employees a good quality of work life, and what do you do in an effort to maintain employee satisfaction and to remain competitive? If you have to think about it, then ask yourself how loyal am I to my employees? Then ask yourself, how loyal your employees are to you. Organizational commitment refers to the relative strength of an individuals identification and involvement in a particular organization.O40 When committed to the organization, individuals identify with the company and are loyal to it. Organizational citizenship refers to the willingness of employees to engage in behaviors that help the organization achieve its goals. Such behaviors include helping co-workers with job-related activities, accepting orders willingly, tolerating temporary impositions without fussing, and making sacrifices for the good of the company.41 Generally, when employers are loyal to their employees, employees feel they are treated fairly, are paid in an equitable manner, and a sense of job security. Therefore, that loyalty will be reciprocated.