The purpose of this research is to explore the extent to which companies are setting organization?centric versus resilience?based environmental targets in their sustainability reports. We define ecological resilience through the planetary thresholds identified by the Planetary Boundaries (PB) framework. On this basis, we define resilience?based targets as corporate environmental targets that are connected (quantitatively or qualitatively) to these thresholds. Sustainability reports issued by 50 sustainability leader firms in Canada were analyzed to identify environmental sustainability targets. These targets were classified as resilience?based and organization?centric based on their connection to the PB framework. A total of 303 targets were identified, distributed across eight different corporate performance areas. None of these targets was found to be quantitatively tied to any PB thresholds. A small number of targets did nevertheless make reference to the global/regional ecological processes that underpin some of the Boundaries. These targets made reference to only five of the nine Boundaries described by the framework. This study highlights the extent of organization?centric environmental targets in corporate sustainability reports. The implications of setting such targets are discussed, along with the challenges of adopting resilience?based targets. This study also discusses the reasons why companies may not be adopting a resilience?based approach to set sustainability targets and measure performance, despite increasing calls from stakeholders to do so. On this basis, several recommendations are also provided for managers to guide resilience?based target? and goal?setting.

Keywords: corporate; environmental; planetary boundaries; sustainability; sustainable development; targets

Curbing climate change and other global environmental challenges are no longer solely public policy imperatives but business ones as well (Beermann, [ 5]). In response, some companies are turning to new "models" (Winn & Pogutz, [61], p. 203) of corporate sustainability based on the principle of ecological resilience (Davidson, [18]; Folke et al., [27]; Whiteman, Forbes, Niemelä, & Chapin, [59]). This paper addresses the application of this principle to the practice of corporate sustainability and, in particular, to its target?setting.

Existing literature has demonstrated that the prevailing approach to corporate sustainability. focuses on an "individual" (Anderies, Folke, Walker, & Ostrom, [ 1], p. 1) or organization?centric notion of sustainability (Milne & Gray, [47]). It aims to improve the environmental impacts of the company itself, with the assumption that in doing so, incremental company?level changes will help contribute to wider regional? or planetary?level improvements. However, this assumption does not always hold true. At a company level, incremental sustainability improvements may look like sustainability gains. However, when viewed from a wider systems?level perspective, these gains but may actually mask unsustainable performance when considered in the context of the wider ecological context within which the company operates (Dahlmann, Branicki, & Brammer, [16]; Searcy, [52]). For example, consider the case of a mining company that draws on the local lake system for its operations. A decrease in the amount of water withdrawn from the lake may appear to be a positive step toward working toward corporate sustainability at the company level. However, if the amount withdrawn is more than the regional lake system can sustain to support the surrounding environment, then this company improvement is actually moving the lake system further away from sustainability, rather than closer toward it. Thus, an individual notion of sustainability may actual be concealing a larger shift toward ecological unsustainability.

This is most often reflected in a lack of due consideration for the principle of ecological context in the practice of corporate sustainability (McElroy & van Engelen, [44]). The term "context," at a top?level, refers to the "background state of vital social and environmental resources in the world, and what an organization's impacts on them ought to be (or not to be) in order to be sustainable" (McElroy & van Engelen, [44], p. 2). Ecological context, in particular, is focused on natural capital and a company's impacts on the larger, biophysical environment within which it operates. This principle of ecological context is based on the premise that, firstly, companies exist within the wider "Earth System," on which they depend for various natural resources and services (D'Amato, Li, Rekola, Toppinen, & Lu, [17]). Secondly, in the course of their operation, companies exert changes on this System, whether through resource use or pollutant releases. Finally, this System can withstand these changes but only up to a particular point, beyond which it loses its ability to recover (Beermann, [ 5]). The extent to which the planet can withstand degradation and still maintain its function is known as ecological resilience (Holling, [36]). It is determined by a set of biophysical thresholds. These thresholds function as global?scale indicators of ecological sustainability. One of the most comprehensive ways of defining these thresholds and identifying their "safe limits" (Steffen et al., [53], p. 737) are the nine Planetary Boundaries (PB) described by Johan Rockström and colleagues in 2009 in their PB framework.

A resilience?based approach to corporate sustainability is thus one that considers the twin principles of ecological context and ecological resilience. It is an approach based on maintaining corporate impacts within the limits of specific global thresholds, and assessing corporate performance on this basis. By considering the natural constraints of the surrounding environment and a company's obligation to preserve its integrity, a resilience?based approach to sustainability has redefined what it means for a company to be "sustainable." Instead of being a series of incremental improvements toward a vaguely "more sustainable" state, sustainability is now defined in terms of a ceiling—a finite cap on unsustainability. This "unsustainable performance cap" is defined on the basis of biophysical thresholds. In the practice of resilience?based sustainability, these thresholds are reflected in either corporate performance indicators (such as the GEVA metric; Randers, [50]) or performance targets (such as the EMC carbon target; EMC, [21]). Much of the recent resilience?based sustainability research has focused on the former (Fang, Heijungs, & De Snoo, [24]; Thomas & McElroy, [55]); in this paper, we explore the latter. Despite the growing interest in resilience?based sustainability, there remains a dearth of research on whether companies are actually applying the principles of ecological resilience in their target?setting. Target?setting is a crucial step in realizing a company's commitment to sustainability. This is because measuring and reporting on corporate sustainability performance is not enough, on its own, to drive "transformational" (White, [58]) performance changes. Instead, actionable performance targets are needed. Furthermore, to drive meaningful, systems?wide sustainability changes, these targets must also be based on the principles of ecological resilience.

In this study, we define ecological resilience through the safe limits identified by the PB framework. This framework was chosen because it offers a set of global limits that is both comprehensive in scope and quantitative in nature. On this basis, we address the following research question: Are sustainability leader companies setting sustainability targets in line with these global priorities, on a quantitative and/or qualitative level? By answering this question, this research reveals the extent to which this group of sustainability leader firms are relying on organization?centric targets (over science? or resilience?based targets) to guide company action on sustainability. This study then explores the reasons why companies may be using resilience?based approaches (such as the PB framework) to guide their target?setting. This discussion addresses why companies may have not yet adopted PB targets, even in the face of increasing calls to do so from the scientific and academic communities. On the basis of this discussion, this paper then offers practical recommendations to encourage companies to adopt a more resilience?based approach to their sustainability target?setting.

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: in the literature review section, we begin with a brief overview of the literature and theoretical perspectives that link the two concepts of corporate sustainability and ecological resilience. We then describe the PB framework itself, along with some of the predominant corporate impacts that are contributing to its nine Boundaries. We then explore how this framework has been used to guide company target?setting on environmental issues, as well as the incentives (and disincentives) to using this framework in company target?setting. In the subsequent methods section, we describe the analytical procedure followed in identifying and classifying the targets mentioned in the reports, and then evaluating these targets on the basis of the PB framework. We then offer a discussion of the findings, as well as the potential challenges of setting targets based on the PB framework, and the reasons why companies may or may not be setting resilience?based targets in their sustainability reports. Finally, this paper concludes with some concrete, practical guidance on how companies can adopt a more resilience?based approach in setting targets and reporting on performance. Ultimately, this research will help determine whether the current target?setting priorities of the companies under study are appropriate in terms of enhancing global ecological resilience.

LITERATURE REVIEW

Corporate sustainability and ecological resilience
According to McElroy and van Engelen ([44]), the notion of applying ecological resilience to the practice of corporate sustainability emerged from two separate yet parallel streams of literature.

The first is grounded in systems dynamics theory. This literature (e.g., Folke et al., [25]; Folke et al., [26]; Gunderson, [32]; Holling, [36]; Meadows, Meadows, & Randers, [46]; Walker & Meyers, [56]; Westley et al., [57]) views the biosphere as a single system—the Earth System—which is composed of a series of subsystems, which may be social, ecological or economic in nature. These interconnected subsystems exist across a range of scales, and are each defined through their own carrying capacity, or tipping point. Together, these subsystem tipping points impose finite limits on human population and economic growth, and thus establish a framework for sustainable development. By viewing the biosphere in this way, as a network of subsystems and subsystem relationships, this literature—and specifically the seminal work of Holling ([36]) and May ([43])—introduced the concept of resilience to sustainable development.

At a top level, resilience is defined as being "a measure of a system's ability to survive and persist within a variable environment" (Meadows, [45]). This property allows natural systems the ability to withstand changes while still retaining their functioning—but only up to their tipping points (Folke et al., [25], [27]; Meadows, [45]). Applying this to the practice of sustainable development meant that it was no longer enough to simply manage eco? and socioeconomic systems in way that only ensures that their levels of stock (e.g., the population of a particular species or levels of lumber stock) are stable over time. Instead, these systems "also need to be managed for resilience" (Meadows, [45], p. 78)—that is, a consideration for their tipping points. Therein, the resilience?based approach to sustainable development was born.

The second stream of literature that was essential to the development of resilience? and context?based corporate sustainability is grounded in the capital theory approach (CTA) to sustainability. According to the CTA, all economies rely on finite stocks of different kinds of capital (Costanza & Farley, [15]). Typically, this includes natural capital (such as stocks of renewable and nonrenewable natural resources), as well as other forms, such as manufactured and social capital (Dyllick & Hockerts, [19]). To develop sustainably, economies need to ensure that the total level of all forms of capital—and, in particular, "critical" forms of natural capital—is held constant (Brand, [ 9]; Costanza et al., [14]; Hahn & Figge, [33]; Harte, [34]). "Critical natural capital" is that which "performs important and irreplaceable environmental functions, i.e. ecosystem services that cannot be substituted by other types of capital" (Brand, [ 9], p. 605).

From a company perspective, this means that to satisfy this "constant capital rule" and attain a sustainable state, it would be necessary for firms to maintain levels of their critical natural capital stocks within sustainable limits (i.e., thresholds) (Dyllick & Hockerts, [19]; McElroy & van Engelen, [44]). This combined focus on the maintenance of critical natural stock levels within inherent thresholds echoes back to the concept of ecological resilience described by Holling ([36]), albeit at a different scale. This resilience?based approach to sustainability at the level of industries and businesses would eventually evolve into the notion of "natural capitalism" (Winn & Pogutz, [61], p. 205) which was pioneered by Paul Hawken. Here, from a company perspective, maintaining these critical capital stocks was not only a matter of sustainable development, but also a form of strategic management (Andersen, [ 2]; Beermann, [ 5]; Hawken, Lovins, & Lovins, [35]; Lovins & Lovins, [40]; Whiteman et al., [59]; Winn & Pogutz, [61]).

Although these two literature streams emerged from different theoretical foundations, they nevertheless converged on the need to link the concept of sustainability with the notion of resilience, albeit at different scales. Yet despite this growing body of work, what remains unknown is the degree to which these concepts are being adopted by companies in the practice of corporate sustainability today. There remains a dearth of first?hand information on whether and to what extent companies are actually considering this concept of ecological resilience in their sustainability reporting and, more critically, in their target?setting.

The business case for adopting a resilience?based approach to corporate sustainability
Recent studies have found that the many companies today "tend to subscribe to a 'weak, eco?modernist version of sustainable development' that neither challenges the concept of business as usual nor changes their unsustainable relationships with nature" (Mårtensson & Westerberg, [42], p. 1; see also: Ihlen & Roper, [38]; Milne & Gray, [47]). However, this is beginning to change; a growing business case is emerging for companies to improve their organizational?level performance, but also their contributions to systems?based sustainable development as well.

Companies may realize a business benefit through increased legitimacy and a response to institutional pressure. Adopting a resilience?based approach to sustainability confers a sense of social legitimacy and signals to key stakeholders a company's commitment to organizational?level sustainability and wider sustainable development. Major sustainability reporting organizations are increasingly advocating for resilience?based approaches. Some of the most prominent examples include: the Global Reporting Initiative's inclusion of the notion of "sustainability context" as a key reporting principle in its guidelines (GRI, [29]), the Carbon Disclosure Project's call for science?based target?setting in company reports (CDP, [12]), and the World Resources Institute's Science?Based Targets Initiative (CDP, WRI, & WWF, [13]), which develops guidance and best?practice standards for setting resilience?based targets. Resilience?based sustainability approaches are also being increasingly adopted by global business leaders such as Ford Motors, who are already disclosing their sustainability targets based on the latest climate science (Ford Motors, [28]). As the issue of resilience?based sustainability gains more societal traction, companies are under increasing "external normative stakeholder pressure" (Hyatt & Berente, [37], p. 4) to adopt resilience?based sustainability initiatives. By proactively adopting science?based targets, companies respond to this institutional pressure while simultaneously "setting clear and defensible limits" on what they can and ought to contribute to systems?wide sustainable development (Bertels & Dobson, [ 6], p. 7).

Another strong incentive for companies to adopt a resilience?based approach to sustainability lies in the increasing business value of leading sustainability performance. By improving their organizational?level performance and demonstrating their contributions to wider sustainable development, companies "enhance their ability to access finance in capital markets" (Miralles?Quiros, Miralles?Quiros, & Arraiano, [48], p. 1014). According to the latest executive survey by MIT Sloan and Boston Consulting Group (Kiron et al., [39], p. 4), "an overwhelming three quarters of senior executives in mainstream investment firms believe sustainability performance is materially important to their investment decisions." This materiality of sustainability performance is rising rapidly: "seventy?four percent of surveyed investors agreed that sustainability performance matters more [now] than it did three years ago" (Kiron et al., [39], p. 4). This is supported by the findings of Miralles?Quiros et al. ([48]), who demonstrated that a company's contribution to sustainable development (rather than mere incremental changes) was valued by investors as being increasingly positive over the period 2000–13 within the context of the ten European nations under study.

Another incentive for companies to adopt a resilience?based sustainability approach is to more effectively anticipate and adapt to "disruptive risk" from changing global trends, such as climate change (Bertels & Dobson, [ 6], p. 7). The literature on the business case for corporate sustainability has described the risk mitigation benefit of traditional corporate?centric approaches to sustainability (Network for Business Sustainability (NBS), [49]). A resilience?based approach extends this risk management benefit further by allowing companies to better "[systematically consider] socio?ecological thresholds as a key part of a long?term risk conversation" as a means of uncovering "potential sources of disruption, helping to ensure a more proactive response" (Bertels & Dobson, [ 6], p. 7). Thus a resilience?based approach allows companies to more effectively mitigate and adapt to risks of climate change and other global environmental trends.

Planetary boundaries and corporate contributions
From a company perspective, a crucial first step in applying this resilience?based approach to sustainability is to identify a set of critical ecological thresholds. One of the foremost ways of identifying these thresholds is through the PB framework. The PB framework was developed in 2009; it described a set of key interconnected biophysical processes (or Planetary Boundaries) that together maintain the continued functioning of our planet (Rockström et al., [51]). All of these nine processes are driven by human?induced environmental changes, many of which are influenced by corporate impacts (Whiteman, Walker, & Perego, [60]). For each of these Boundaries, this framework identified one or more key indicators and their maximum quantitative limits. These limits outline the "safe operating space" (Steffen et al., [53], p. 736) for humanity; transgressing these limits would mean risking irreparable environmental damage on a global scale. In 2015, the PB framework was revised to include additional regional limits for the Boundaries, to better account for regional variations in some of these processes. The nine Boundaries are listed in Table 1, along with their individual indicators and limits, according to the latest version of the framework. For each of these Boundaries, Table 1 also lists some of the most common corporate impacts that contribute to these limits.

Planetary Boundaries and company contributions. Descriptive information on the individual Boundary processes, indicators, limits, and scales have been adapted from Steffen et al. (53)

Earth System Process	Proposed boundary (indicator + limit)	Scale	Example corporate contributions
Global	Regional
Climate change	Atmospheric CO2 concentration: 350 ppm	?		
• GHG emissions from vehicles (company fleet, distribution chain, employee travel, operation vehicles)

• GHG emissions from energy use/generation

• GHG emissions from operations (particularly agriculture)

• Emissions of ozone depleting substances and their GHG substitutes (e.g., HFCs, PFCs)

• Elimination of carbon sinks through deforestation

Radiative forcing: 1 W/m2	?	
Changes in biosphere integrity	Extinction Rate: <10 Species per million species/year	?		
Habitat and ecosystem degradation through:

• Deforestation/land?use changes

• Chemical emissions and accidental releases

• Exploitation of natural resources and ecosystem services

Biodiversity intactness index (BII): 90%		?
Bio geochemical flows	N cycle	Concentration of nitrogen removed from atmosphere for human use: 35 Milion Tons/Year	?		
• Industrial?scale fertilizer application

• NO emissions from fossil fuel combustion

P cycle	Concentration of phosphorous flowing into oceans: 11 Million Tons/Year	?	?
Stratospheric ozone depletion	Stratospheric ozone concentration: <5% reduction from pre?industrial level of 290 DU	?		• Emissions of ozone?depleting substances (e.g., CFCs, HCFCs, Halons) from mobile or stationary sources
Ocean acidification	Surface ocean average global aragonite saturation state: ?80% of the pre?industrial aragonite saturation state	?		• CO2 emissions from fossil fuel combustion from vehicles, energy use/generation
Freshwater use	Maximum amount of consumptive blue freshwater use: 4000 km3/Year	?		• Surface water withdrawal for use in company operations
Basin?specific blue water withdrawal as % of mean monthly river flow: 25% (for low?flow months), 30% (for intermediate?flow months), 55% (for high?flow months)		?
Land?system change	Area of global forested land as % of original forest cover: 75%	?		• Deforestation from company operations, e.g., in the case of palm oil (Whiteman et al., 2013)
Area of biome?specific forested land as % of original forest cover: 85% (tropical), 50% (temperate), 85% (boreal)		?
Atmospheric aerosol loading	Global anthropogenic total aerosol optical depth (AOD): TBD	TBD		• Emissions of SOx, NOx, CO, and particulate matter (including black carbon) from fossil fuel combustion
Regional anthropogenic total AOD: TBD, 0.25 (over Indian sub?continent during South Asian Monsoon)		TBD
Introduction of novel entities	TBD	TBD	
• Pollutant emissions to land, air, and water

• Environmental spills & accidental releases

• Disposal of hazardous and nuclear waste

As an illustrative example of one of the Boundaries from Table 1: the PB framework identified stratospheric ozone loss as one of the key processes that maintains resilience and safeguards the integrity of the planet. The framework described this Boundary in terms of the concentration of stratospheric ozone in Dobson Units (DU). This indicator is a measure of the thickness of the ozone layer on a global scale. To avoid transgressing this Boundary, the global average concentration of stratospheric ozone in the ozone layer must not fall below 14.5 DU. This value is the Boundary's safe limit; it equates to a 5% decrease in the thickness of the ozone layer from its pre?industrial state. Companies contribute to this Boundary through the use of ozone?depleting substances, which include chlorofluorocarbons and hydrochlorofluorocarbons, among others. These substances are commonly used by companies for refrigeration, cooling, or as fire retardants (among other uses) (Environment Canada, [22]). They are emitted from mobile sources (such as vehicle air conditioning systems) or stationary sources (such as heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems and refrigerators) during their use or disposal (Environment Canada, [22]).

Planetary boundaries and company target?setting
In 2013, a team of sustainability scholars proposed linking corporate performance assessment with the global thresholds described by the PB framework (Whiteman et al., [60]). Drawing this connection, they argued, would encourage the development of a more "ecologically?grounded foundation" (Whiteman et al., [60], p. 309) for corporate sustainability, based on the principle of resilience. References to the PB framework and its resilience premise have also appeared in a growing number of corporate sustainability reports (e.g., Mars [[41]]), in various conferences led by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) [[30]]), and in an original plan for the World Business Council for Sustainable Development's Vision 2050 report which has been developed to guide corporate action on sustainability challenges based on the latest sustainability science (Bakker & Rockström, [ 4]).

The PB framework provides a strong scientific basis for building a resilience?based model of sustainability for two key reasons. Firstly, it identifies a specific set of critical planetary processes that may be targeted in a resilience?based approach to corporate sustainability. Secondly, the framework also specifies precise indicators and quantitative limits for each of these processes (except two). These limits serve as global or regional?level "budgets" for each of these nine processes. These budgets may be used to guide company?level target?setting if they are allocated among individual companies that contribute to these processes through their impacts. Thus, a target based on the PB framework and its safe limits would be one that aims to improve one or more of the nine Boundaries, by translating the larger, global/regional Boundary limit into a company?level performance target.

As an example of what one such target might look like, let us consider the case of corporate climate change targets set on the basis of the PB climate change limit. The PB framework describes the safe limit for global climate change in terms of a maximum atmospheric CO2 concentration globally; companies contribute to this limit predominantly through their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. As such, this limit serves as a global carbon budget, which must not be exceeded (McElroy & van Engelen, [44]). For companies to "do their part" (McElroy & van Engelen, [44]) to hold global CO2 concentrations below this critical limit, they would need to align their individual GHG targets with this global carbon budget. To do this, they would need to allocate this global budget—this global CO2 cap—on a company?per?company basis. In doing so, this global limit would then be translated into individual, science?based, company?level GHG targets. Companies following this target?setting procedure would be ensuring that their company?level GHG impacts are held at such a level that would be "doing their part" in ensuring that the global CO2 concentration would not exceed the prescribed global safe limit for climate change. Corporate targets based on these budgets—and this PB framework—are referred to here as PB?based targets.

PB?based targets, such as the one described here, are a subset of the larger group of science?based corporate targets. These are targets that tie corporate performance to scientific thresholds, such as those described by the PB framework (CDP et al., [13]). Science?based targets are a relatively recent phenomenon in the practice of corporate sustainability, and a small but growing number of companies worldwide have so far adopted them (Bjørn, Bey, Georg, Røpke, & Hauschild, [ 7]). Existing science?based targets have focused heavily on climate change, and are aimed primarily at GHG emissions (Bjørn et al., [ 7]). These carbon targets (or target?setting methodologies) have been developed by companies such as British Telecom and Autodesk; some examples of these targets have been listed in Table 2. Other science?based target?setting methodologies specifically for GHG reductions have also been developed by the Science?Based Targets Initiative, a joint effort by the CDP, the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), World Wild Fund for Nature (WWF) and the World Resources Initiative (WRI). This Initiative was established in 2015 to encourage companies to set corporate climate targets in line with climate science.

Examples of science?based carbon targets or methodologies

Corporate target (or methodology)	Developed by	Year	Global climate change target	Allocation mechanism
Climate Stabilization Intensity target (BT [n.d.])	British Telecom (in partnership with Jorgen Randers)	2007	450 ppm atmospheric CO2 by 2050	GHG emissions per company's contribution to global GDP ('company value?add')
Corporate Finance Approach to Climate?Stabilizing Targets (C?FACT) methodology (Autodesk, 2009)	Autodesk	2009
Science?based GHG reduction target (EMC, 2011)	EMC	2010
As shown in Table 2, most of the science?based carbon targets developed by companies aim for the same global carbon budget, in the form of 450 ppm atmospheric CO2 concentration. These targets also allocate this global budget in the same fashion: on the basis of the companies' individual contributions to gross domestic product (GDP). Following the allocation example described earlier, a PB?based, company?level carbon target would closely resemble these types of science?based targets (from Table 2).

In this study, we aim to explore the extent to which sustainability leader firms are setting PB?based targets in their reports. We define PB?based targets as corporate targets that are science?based in nature, and are tied to the quantitative limits of any of the nine Boundaries described in the PB framework. This includes a link both to the PB indicator and to its safe limit.

Given that science?based targets, particularly beyond climate issues, have not yet been adopted on a wide scale, we have also extended this study to look for targets that are more loosely tied to the PB framework. We define these targets as being those that have a qualitative connection to any of the nine Boundaries, in that they make explicit reference to the global biophysical processes that underpin these Boundaries. An example of this would be a corporate ozone reduction target that aims to reduce a company's overall contribution to global stratospheric ozone loss—without calculating what this contribution is or ought to be. Although these targets are not science?based, they do demonstrate—at the minimum—a company's commitment to considering the global ecological consequences of its impacts. For the purposes of this research, we refer to these targets as being PB?referencing, as opposed to PB?based. By exploring the extent to which companies are setting both types of PB targets (PB?based and PB?referencing), it would be possible to understand the degree to which companies are aligning their corporate sustainability priorities (quantitative and/or qualitatively) with the global priorities dictated by the PB framework.

METHOD
To study the extent to which the nine Boundaries were reflected in company targets, this work relied on the analysis of sustainability reports issued by sustainability leader companies, as ranked by a Canadian business magazine. This list was published by Corporate Knights in 2014 as the "Best 50 Corporate Citizens in Canada." The 50 companies targeted in this study included Canadian as well as international companies that varied by size and industry. The companies under study belonged to a range of different industry sectors; 13 sectors are represented in the sample. The top four most commonly represented sectors included: utilities (16%), banking (14%), energy (14%) and materials (14%).

For each of the 50 companies in the study sample, the most recent sustainability report was obtained from the company website. As shown in the schematic diagram in Figure 1, the reports were then analyzed individually by textual analysis to identify all sustainability targets. This analysis involved reading through and manually scanning the text for references to targets as well as any associated descriptive information on these targets. For the purposes of this study, targets are defined as being specific performance objectives that are intended to be achieved within a specific timeframe. These objectives may refer to either quantitative or qualitative performance changes. Quantitative (or "hard") targets are those that aim for defined performance levels that are set using a specific performance baseline and an intended target timeframe. "Soft" targets are more qualitative in nature and refer to performance goals within a specified timeframe. In the course of this research, both types of targets were considered for this study and captured in the report analysis. Soft targets were only considered if sufficient detail was included in the reports on both the timeframe and the specific qualitative performance goal. The reports were screened specifically for environmental sustainability targets that were listed throughout the reports, across all the various report sections (e.g., performance summaries, indicator lists or appendices). All other forms of nonenvironmental corporate targets (e.g., employee health and safety) were excluded from the analysis.

bse2053-fig-0001.jpg1 Schematic diagram of the methodology followed in the study

The targets extracted from the reports varied widely in terms of the types of company performance they addressed. To analyze this widely diverse set of targets, it was first necessary to organize it. This meant classifying these targets into discrete performance area categories. These categories emerged inductively from the analysis itself and formed the first step of the content analysis procedure (as shown in Figure 1). Targets within each of these broad performance area categories were then classified further into subcategories. For example, company targets related to GHG emissions (i.e., the performance category "GHG Targets") were further classified on the basis of whether they addressed emission reductions ("GHG Reduction" subcategory), emission disclosures ("Reporting") or fuel use ("Fuel Efficiency"). All the categories and subcategories that emerged from this analysis have been listed in Table A1 along with some examples of some of the targets identified from the reports.

The purpose of this initial classification stage was to obtain a better understanding of the kinds of corporate targets set by the companies in the sample, before investigating their connection to the PB framework. In the subsequent classification stage, these targets (now classified at the level of these performance area categories) were then classified on the basis of their connection to the PB framework. The purpose of the second classification stage was to understand whether these targets were connected to the nine Boundaries, and how. For the purposes of this study, this connection may be quantitative and/or qualitative in nature. Corporate targets with a quantitative connection to the framework are referred to here as PB?based targets, while those with a qualitative connection to the framework are referred to as PB?referencing targets. Targets without any connection to the framework are referred to as being non?PB, or organization?centric.

To illustrate the difference between these three types of PB?related targets, we use the example of corporate carbon targets. A science?based corporate carbon target that tied corporate performance to global CO2 concentrations (e.g., the Climate Stabilization Intensity target described in Table 2) would qualify as a PB?based target. Alternatively, a nonscience?based corporate carbon target (e.g., 10% reduction of gross company GHG emissions) that was presented in the report as being set with the explicit objective of curbing the company's contribution to the global process of climate change would qualify as a PB?referencing target (for explicitly referencing the PB of climate change). However, if the company did not explicitly reference climate change in relation to this target in their report, this target would instead qualify as being non?PB.

RESULTS

Classification of targets into performance area categories
This study identified 303 sustainability targets from the corporate sustainability reports analyzed. The overwhelming majority (92%) of the companies in the sample disclosed at least one sustainability target; only four companies failed to disclose any. On average, each company in the sample disclosed approximately six targets.

Regarding the kinds of corporate targets being set by the companies in the sample, the 303 identified targets belonged to eight different corporate performance area categories (Figure 2). The overall target frequencies for each of these eight performance area categories have been shown in Figure 2. The target frequencies listed in the figure have been expressed on a presence–absence basis, in terms of the percentage of companies in the sample that disclosed at least one target in a particular category.

bse2053-fig-0002.jpg2 Frequency of companies setting targets per performance area category [Colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]

The top 3 most frequently disclosed target performance areas were those related to GHG emissions (GHG targets were set by 66% of the companies in the sample), chemical pollution impacts (44%) and other/miscellaneous sustainability issues (50%). Targets falling into the "other" category included stakeholder engagement targets related to the environment—including those targeting customers, employees and suppliers—as well as "one?off" sustainability targets that covered a wide range of corporate sustainability issues outside of the seven core performance areas identified. Examples of targets falling into this final performance area category include targets related to environmental management systems, and green products.

Within these eight performance areas, the targets were further classified into 24 different subcategories. The target categories and subcategories identified in the reports are shown in Table A1, along with their frequencies.

Classification of targets in connection to the PB framework
In terms of the targets' connection to the PB framework, none of the 303 targets identified here may be considered as being PB?based, or even as science?based. That is, none of the 303 targets exhibited a quantitative connection to the PB framework, or to any global ecological thresholds described elsewhere. As an illustrative example, from Figure 2: although 66% of the companies in the sample disclosed at least one type of GHG?related target (e.g., from Table A1: to reduce the intensity of gross GHG emissions by 5%), none of the targets identified in this category was linked to either of the two global?scale indicators described by the PB framework—namely, atmospheric CO2 concentration or radiative forcing—or to their quantitative limits. Some of these company targets did, however, make reference to the global process of climate change and the need for its mitigation through corporate action (and thus target?setting).

Therefore, although none of the identified targets was found to be PB?based, this study did nevertheless identify a small number of PB?referencing targets. These targets were distributed across seven of the eight performance area categories, as shown in Table 3. Targets set by the companies in the sample under the "material use and disposal" performance area category were found to be neither PB?based nor PB?referencing; these targets were wholly organization?centric in nature. The specific Boundaries referenced in the PB?referencing targets have also been described in the table.

Frequency of companies setting PB/non?PB targets

Target performance area category	Companies setting all targets	Companies setting PB?based targets	Companies setting PB?referencing targets	Companies setting non?PB targets
No. of companies	% of companies	No. of companies	% of companies	No. of companies	% of companies	PB referenced	No. of companies	% of companies
GHG	33	66	0	0	21	42	Climate change	12	24
Energy	22	44	0	0	12	24	Climate change	10	20
Chemical pollution	2	4	0	0	1	2	Novel entities	1	2
Biosphere integrity		
Stratospheric ozone depletion	22	44	0	0	4	8	Stratospheric ozone loss	18	36
Water use	11	22	0	0	2	4	Freshwater loss	9	18
Biodiversity	15	30	0	0	13	26	Biosphere integrity	2	4
Material use & disposal	18	36	0	0	0	0	N/A	18	36
Other/miscellaneous CS issues	25	50	0	0	2	4	Biosphere integrity	23	46
In total, as shown in Table 3, the targets identified in this study made reference to five of the nine Boundaries of the PB framework. These were: climate change (GHG and energy targets), biosphere integrity (chemical pollution, biodiversity and other/miscellaneous targets), stratospheric ozone loss (ozone targets) and freshwater loss (water targets). PB?referencing targets related to chemical pollution were equally divided between those that referenced the novel entities Boundary, and those that referenced biosphere integrity. As shown in Table 3, the extent of PB?referencing targets (as compared to non?PB) varied across the seven performance area categories. The top three categories with the largest extent of PB?referencing targets were: GHG targets (42% of companies in the sample disclosed PB?referencing GHG targets connected to climate change), biodiversity targets (26%; referencing biosphere integrity) and energy targets (24%; referencing climate change).

Targets that were neither PB?referencing nor PB?based exhibited no connection to the PB framework, and were thus organization?centric. On the whole, companies in the sample were more likely to set non?PB targets than PB?referencing. In five of the eight performance areas, more than half of all the companies that had disclosed targets in each of these categories were relying more on organization?centric targets than on PB?referencing targets. In the remaining three performance area categories the reverse was true: companies that disclosed targets related to GHG, energy and biodiversity were more likely to set PB?referencing targets than non?PB targets. As an illustrative example of this, from Table 3: although 33 of the 50 companies in the sample disclosed at least one GHG target, 21 of these companies (64% of companies setting GHG targets) described these targets in terms of climate change mitigation. The remaining 12 companies (36%) disclosed GHG targets without making any explicit reference to their global ecological objective. These non?PB GHG targets were described instead in terms of the more organization?centric goal of improving eco?efficiency. Under the energy target category, this global ecological connection to climate change was even weaker: of the 22 companies (55%) setting energy targets, only 12 set PB?referencing targets, while the remaining 10 (45%) set non?PB, or organization?centric, targets. By contrast, of the 11 companies disclosing water?related targets, only two (18%) related their water targets to the environmental challenge of global freshwater loss, while the remaining nine (82%) did not. The overall frequencies of PB?referencing to non?PB targets across the eight performance area categories are shown in Figure 3 (based on the target frequencies presented in Table 3). The relative frequencies are shown in Figure 4.

bse2053-fig-0003.jpg3 Overall frequency of companies setting PB?based/PB?referencing/non?PB targets [Colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]

bse2053-fig-0004.jpg4 Relative frequency of companies setting PB?based/PB?referencing/non?PB targets [Colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]

From Figure 4, the target categories with the highest extent of PB?referencing targets are biodiversity targets, followed by GHG, energy and chemical pollution targets. In these categories, more than half of the companies setting targets here were referencing PB processes. For example, of the companies setting GHG targets, 64% mentioned climate change, while the remaining 36% did not. Alternatively, the target categories with the highest extent of organization?centric targets are ozone targets, water targets and other/miscellaneous targets. In each of these categories, more than half of all the companies setting targets in these areas relied on non?PB (or organization?centric) targets. For example, only 18% of the companies setting water targets described the environmental challenge of global freshwater use. Targets related to material use/disposal category in particular were entirely organization?centric (non?PB) in nature. The "AVERAGE" column shown in Figure 3 represents the average number of companies in the sample that had set PB?referencing targets relative to non?PB targets in their reports, across all eight performance areas. As shown in the figure, on average and on the whole: 37% of the companies in the study sample (that had disclosed targets in their reports) had relied on PB?referencing targets, while the remaining 63% of companies (that had disclosed targets) had relied on organization?centric targets.

DISCUSSION

Targets lack a sufficient connection to the PB framework
The objective of this research was to explore whether companies in the sample were setting their sustainability targets in line with the safe limits described by the PB framework, on a quantitative and/or qualitative level. The findings reveal that, on the whole, they were not. In terms of a quantitative connection to the framework, this study found that none of the companies in the sample disclosed any PB?based (or more generally science?based) targets. With regard to a qualitative connection, this study found that most of the companies described these targets without reference to the global/regional processes to which they contribute. The findings reveal that on average, the number of companies setting organization?centric targets was roughly double the number of companies setting PB?referencing targets. These findings demonstrate the wide extent of organization?centric targets being set by the sustainability leader firms under study. This is a problematic trend. Without science? or resilience?based targets to guide company action on sustainability, the companies under study will be unable to determine whether any incremental company?level gains achieved will actually help curb the wider sustainability challenges of climate change, stratospheric ozone loss and other trends.

In attempting to interpret these results it is important to note that, at a top level, the company?level target areas identified here did not match consistently with the wider ecological processes described by the PB framework. This mismatch can be seen when comparing the list of company?level target performance area categories identified in the reports (Figure 2) with the list of systems?level Boundaries (Table 1). In comparing the two it is evident that multiple Boundaries share the same contributing corporate impacts, while multiple target areas reference the same Boundaries. Furthermore, some target areas and Boundaries appear to share no connection at all.

On the one hand, some target focus areas (on a company level) match clearly with certain Boundary areas (on a systems level). An example of this would be the ozone target category and the stratospheric ozone loss PB. Other examples include GHG targets and climate change, and biodiversity targets and biosphere integrity. The fact that such a clear match exists between target performance area and Boundary in these two categories may explain their relatively higher extent of PB?referencing targets to non?PB targets (from Figure 3). Yet, even in these areas, this study found no evidence of PB?based targets. Furthermore, despite this target area–Boundary match, companies were still setting targets without any reference to the matching Boundary. This is particularly striking in GHG and ozone targets which are set primarily for curbing an organization's ultimate contribution to global warming and stratospheric ozone loss, respectively.

By contrast, in the remaining target performance area categories, the target area–Boundary match was less clear. For example, targets referencing the same biosphere integrity Boundary were found across multiple performance areas, including chemical pollution and the widely diverse "other sustainability issues" category. Given the inconsistent target area–PB match, it is unsurprising to find that targets disclosed in these target categories were less likely to be PB?referencing than, for example GHG, and biodiversity targets (based on the relative frequencies shown in Figure 4). This mismatch was particularly evident in the two target areas of "material use and disposal" and "other CS issues," whose targets made the least mention of Boundary processes. Targets set in these categories tended to be based on sustainability goals that carried a broad definition of the term sustainability. For example, one company target under the "other" category aimed to increase employee engagement on general "sustainability initiatives" by 50% over the course of the year (see Table A1). Given the broad and vague definition of the term "sustainability" within these target categories, it comes as no surprise to note that very few (if any) targets disclosed here were PB?based or referencing. Similarly, the Boundaries that were absent from the reports appear to be those that were either: less widely applicable across industries (e.g., land?system change), or less clearly defined in the framework (e.g., novel entities), or less widely addressed on a corporate sustainability level (e.g., ocean acidification).

Why companies fail to adopt resilience?based targets
The study companies' failure to follow a resilience?based approach in their sustainability target?setting is surprising given the growing institutional pressures—and business case—for adopting science?based and other similar PB?based targets. In this discussion, we offer several possible explanations for why companies have failed to adopt such targets, despite increasing stakeholder calls to do so. The first explanation deals with the practical complexity of setting the targets themselves.

The inconsistent match between company?level priorities and systems?level priorities shown in the results may reflect the practical challenge of translating the complex, interconnected and systems?wide Boundaries described in the framework onto a company level. For example, as shown in Table 1, some of the corporate impacts listed contribute to more than one Boundary. This phenomenon complicates the practice of PB?based target?setting. An example would be emissions of ozone?depleting substances described earlier. In addition to being ozone depleters, these gases are also GHGs that contribute to climate change. Other Boundary overlaps can also be seen when considering the global?scale implications of industrial fossil fuel combustion. The GHGs and air pollutants released in the course of this combustion contribute to multiple, overlapping Boundaries such as climate change, ocean acidification and novel entities. All the existing examples of science?based targets and methodologies (such as those listed in Table 2) focus exclusively on GHG emissions. However, setting carbon targets on the basis of the PB framework would arguably require considering a wider range of overlapping corporate impacts, above and beyond GHG emissions. The challenge that arises from these kinds of Boundary/impact overlaps lies in pinpointing exactly which corporate impacts contribute to which safe limit, determining how to measure these complex impact interactions, and ultimately establishing how to allocate this safe limit on this basis. To compound the challenge further, some Boundaries, such as novel entities, remain poorly defined even at a systems level.

The complexity of setting PB?based targets does not just lie in the allocation of global?level limits among individual players, but also in the uncertainty about who exactly is responsible for making this allocation.

Existing corporate reporting standards encourage but do not yet require companies to report on performance or set targets on the basis of wider biophysical thresholds (McElroy & van Engelen, [44]). As such, the practice of science?based metrics, in general, has yet to be institutionalized in corporate reporting standards. Although a small number of existing standards, such as the GRI's G4 reporting standards, may make mention of the principle of context, they offer no practical guidance on how companies may incorporate this principle in their reports (McElroy & van Engelen, [44]). This is particularly true for corporate targets tied to Boundaries other than climate change, where resilience?based targets have not yet been developed. This discretionary nature of resilience?based approaches to reporting may be deterring companies from engaging in it. According to Stubbs et al. (2013, p. 464), one of the main reasons why companies fail to issue a sustainability report (whether resilience?based or otherwise) is that is seen as "a nice?do, not a must?do." In addition, given that companies are not yet required to follow a resilience?based approach to sustainability target?setting and reporting either by voluntary reporting standards or by regulations, the question remains about whether companies ought to be investing resources to make the calculations themselves, or whether this responsibility falls on governmental or standards agencies instead.

In addition to the practical complexity of setting PB?based targets, another possible reason why companies have failed to adopt a resilience?based approach to target?setting (and sustainability more broadly) is based on the principles of impression management theory. A growing number of studies have criticized the "symbolic" nature of sustainability commitments made by companies today (e.g., Bozzolan, Cho, & Michelon, [ 8]). Such symbolic initiatives serve as impression management tools that strategically "aim to bolster or protect an organization's reputation but not necessarily improve environmental performance" (Hyatt & Berente, [37], p. 2). Corporate?centric targets serve as one form of such symbolic sustainability practices. A stronger business case is needed for companies to adopt a resilience?based (as opposed to corporate?centric) notion of sustainability. To that end, more work is needed to explore the extent to which customers and investors differentiate between symbolic (as represented by corporate?centric) and substantive (resilience?based) sustainability strategies in this context.

Exploring the results through an alternative lens—this time of institutional theory—also yields yet another explanation for why companies may have not yet adopted a resilience?based approach to sustainability (including target?setting). Although the notion of a resilience?based approach to sustainability has received growing attention, it has yet to be formally accepted as "a new institutional norm" (Caron & Turcotte, [11], p. 279). As such, within companies today, a resilience?based approach to sustainability remains a nascent form of "social innovation" (as described by Caron & Turcotte, [11], p. 275), one that would require a "paradigm shift" to maintain (Caron & Turcotte, [11], p. 278). Within a company, such an innovation would also face opposing internal institutional pressure in the form of inertial forces that seek to maintain the status quo of a corporate?centric approach to sustainability (Caron & Turcotte, [11]).

As a result, companies practicing sustainability today are less likely to internalize the norm of resilience?based sustainability from the external environment, and as a result less likely to feel internal normative stakeholder pressure to adopt it within the organization. This poses a problem, because in the absence of internal stakeholder pressure, and in the face of (relatively low) external normative stakeholder pressure, companies have been shown to be more likely to adopt symbolic rather than substantive sustainability strategies (as per Hyatt & Berente, [37]).

As a result, despite the growing interest in resilience?based approaches to corporate sustainability and its target?setting, key challenges remain for companies attempting to embrace this new direction.

CONCLUSIONS AND MANAGERIAL IMPLICATIONS
The findings of this study reveal the wide extent of organization?centric sustainability targets, even among sustainability leader firms. Although the overwhelming majority of the companies in the sample were setting sustainability targets, these targets were largely unconnected to the wider ecological environment within which these companies operate. As such—on the basis of their target?setting—these study companies failed to consider how their company?level impacts were contributing to key environmental thresholds. Without resilience?based targets, these companies have no way of determining whether their corporate sustainability efforts are ultimately contributing to ecological sustainability.

This study highlights the need for a more resilience?based approach to sustainability target?setting. On a broader level, it also highlights the need to consider the principle of ecological context in the practice of sustainability today. PB?based and other resilience?based targets allow companies to gauge their contributions to wider sustainability trends, and establish more meaningful performance goals on this basis. The PB framework is a valuable tool for company target?setting as it identifies critical thresholds for global sustainability. Companies engaged in the practice of sustainability ought to consider their contributions to these key thresholds in their targets, and in their reports at a more top level. However, given the challenges of applying the framework at a company level, this framework has limited usefulness for now as a quantitative standard for corporate sustainability target?setting. Instead, the framework is more suited to being used as a more general guide to sustainability. In this role, the framework may help guide companies to consider the wider ecological Boundaries that are at risk of being transgressed. By considering the nine Boundaries in the reports and target?setting, companies may better align their own company?level sustainability priorities with wider systems?level priorities. This may encourage companies, at a minimum, to refer to these thresholds in their reports to establish the link between company?level impacts and global tipping points, and ultimately to move toward a more science?based evaluation of these impacts.

In addition to highlighting the need for a more meaningful, resilience?based approach to corporate target?setting and reporting, this paper also describes some of the reasons why companies may not have acted on this need, despite the calls from the academic community (e.g., Whiteman et al., [60]) and reporting organizations (e.g., WRI and CDP) to do so. More work is needed to understand the specific factors and organizational dynamics that may hinder the adoption of PB? and other resilience?based based targets in corporate sustainability.

Based on these challenges, one possible alternative to setting resilience?based targets would be to use the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (as opposed to the PB framework) as a starting point. These 17 goals cover social, environmental, health, and economic issues, and overlap to a large extent with the PB framework (Ernst & Young, [23]). Extensive guidance is already available for companies to adopt these goals in their sustainability practice (Ernst & Young, [23]; GRI et al., [31]). In addition, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) framework allows companies to follow a global system of (nonquantitative) thresholds based on resilience? and systems? thinking, without the complexity of having to allocate global limits and calculate quantitative targets. More work is needed in determining best practices with regards to an SDG?based (rather than a PB?based) approach to sustainability.

A key limitation of this study lies in the assumption that corporate sustainability targets are fully disclosed in sustainability reports. Hence, the terms "disclosed" and "set" are used interchangeably with regard to the targets identified. It is important to note that the companies under study may have set additional sustainability targets that have not been disclosed in their reports.

It is also possibile that these undisclosed targets may be PB?based or PB?referencing. In this case, the relative extent of organization?centric versus PB?referencing or even PB?based targets may have been overestimated. This possibility, however, is small; given that resilience?based targets in general are pioneering, companies would be more likely to publicize such targets, and as such disclose them in their reports.

Another limitation lies in the choice of the study sample. By focusing on national rather than global sustainability leaders, this study limited the possibility of identifying examples of PB targets, particularly PB?based. Further research is needed to identify any PB?based targets developed by companies not included in this sample, and to explore whether the trend in organization?centric target?setting extends to global sustainability leaders in countries other than Canada.

Despite these limitations, this research has made several novel and valuable contributions to the literature on corporate sustainability reporting and performance measurement. Most significantly, this study revealed the extent to which sustainability leader firms rely on organization?centric targets in their sustainability reports. In doing so, these companies fail to duly consider their contributions to critical planetary processes such as climate change, as well as their tipping points. More importantly, by depending heavily on context?free targets, these companies also risk relying on misleading performance monitoring information. In the absence of context, any sustainability improvements achieved based on such organization?centric targets may not necessarily be leading to wider, ecological sustainability improvements—and as such, may not necessarily be enhancing global ecological resilience.

A APPENDIX

TABLE A1. Target performance area subcategories
Target category	Percentage of companies	Target example
1. GHG targets:
GHG reduction	54	5% reduction in gross GHG emissions intensity by 2015
Green commuting	8	Increase access to eco?friendly commuting options by 10% by next reporting cycle
Reporting	8	Measure and report Scope 3 emissions
Fuel efficiency	6	5% increase in backhaul trips and 5% reduction in driver idle time by next reporting cycle
Carbon offset	4	Offset 40% of gross GHG emissions (50% of this must be through impact investing)
2. Energy targets:
Nonrenewable energy use reduction	30	5% reduction in energy consumption intensity by 2017
Renewable energy generation/use	10	Complete 20 solar panel projects (in Ontario only)
Green buildings	8	Apply for LEED certification for 30 company facilities by next reporting cycle
3. Chemical pollution targets:
Wastewater/spills	16	10% reduction in annual spill intensity
Monitoring/reporting	14	Track wastewater emissions
Remediation	10	Conduct remediation on 27 new sites by next reporting cycle
Pollutant emissions reduction	8	10% reduction in air emissions (SOx/NOx/VOCs combined) by 2015
Hazardous/nuclear waste reduction	4	Recycle minimum of 575,000 coal by?product; generate maximum 2,795 m3 of low/intermediate?level radioactive waste
4. Stratospheric ozone depletion targets:
Ozone depleting substance (ODS) reduction	4	Install non?ODS CO2 refrigeration system in one store by next reporting cycle
5. Water targets:
Water use reduction	14	12% reduction in freshwater consumption by 2015
Reporting	10	Establish baseline for water use intensity for next reporting period
6. Biodiversity targets:
Biodiversity and conservation	22	Transfer 1% of annual gross sales and 40% of annual community contributions to company conservation initiatives
Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certification	20	Certify 80% of company forestlands to FSC by 2015
7. Material use/disposal targets:
Nonhazardous waste reduction	26	85% waste diversion rate (from landfill) by next reporting cycle
Paper reduction	22	10% reduction in paper use intensity by 2017
Dematerialization	6	5% reduction in packaging by next reporting cycle (equivalent to 11,800,000 kg of packaging material)
8. Other/miscellaneous CS targets:
Stakeholder engagement on CS issues	46	65% of all suppliers must have completed supplier risk assessments by next reporting cycle; 50% increase in employee training on company sustainability initiatives; engage clients on CS initiatives (minimum of 200 clients by next reporting cycle)
Other miscellaneous (one?off) CS targets	13	Implement ISO 14001?certified EMS at all facilities by 2015; increase sustainable innovation through an annual 10% increase in sales (as a proportion of total sales) from new eco?friendly products
Footnotes
1 The concept of corporate sustainability has been defined in terms of the three pillars of a company's social, economic, and environmental impacts (or the corporate triple?bottom?line; Elkington, [20]). In this paper, however, we focus on the environmental pillar only, given that the Planetary Boundaries framework, and the biophysical limits it describes, are ecological in nature.

2 The concept of corporate sustainability has been defined in terms of the three pillars of a company's social, economic, and environmental impacts (or the corporate triple?bottom?line; Elkington, [20]). In this paper, however, we focus on the environmental pillar only, given that the Planetary Boundaries framework, and the biophysical limits it describes, are ecological in nature.

3 This hypothetical PB?based target?setting protocol follows the target?setting methodology developed for context?based corporate carbon targets, as described by McElroy and van Engelen ([44]).
