This research reviews and analyses the environmental catastrophes in China with regard to its adherence of global environmental policies and practices. The research makes available evidence of the present policy regime and institutions, strategies for curbing emission, environmental legislations and regulations and measures to provide a sustainable environment for the present and future generations. This paper reviewed how the environment is affected by the emissions. The findings revealed that China adheres to global policies and practices. China also receives local and international support in terms of assistance in dealing with environmental challenges. It was also revealed that carbon dioxide was not included in the list of pollutants to be taxed by the environmental protection tax law. Furthermore, the government needs to be strict at the local and district levels in enforcing the law to ensure professionalism and attainment of set standards.

Keywords: Economic development; Environmental sustainability; Foreign direct investment; Environmental pollution

Introduction
Sustainable development (SD) regardless of developed or developing economies enhances economic progression, social advancement and a sustained environment. Contemporary policymakers worldwide are guided by the principles of sustainable development which has had tremendous influence on international agreements and national policies and strategies which are geared towards environmentally-friendly economic activities. Sustainable development is embedded in ensuring an inherent interrelation between the long-term stability of the environment and the economy. That is, SD makes available a roadmap which incorporates environmental policies and development strategies so as to ensure that present needs are met without necessarily jeopardizing the needs of future generations.

This paper explores the interaction between economic development resulting from foreign direct investment (FDI) and environmental sustainability. Our focus is how increased FDI and ED had affected the quality of the environment. It is also prudent to find out how the expansion of economic output through economic activities, the change of the industrial structure of an economy (due to a reallocation or reorganization of the production and consumption structure) and changes of the production methods associated to the development and diffusion of technology all affect environmental upshot. Furthermore, FDI is not an isolated phenomenon which affects the environmental domain but other associated factors. For this reason, most studies done on the impact of FDI on the environment are categorized into scale,1 [ 1] composition2 [ 2] (or structural) and technique3 [ 3] effects. To differentiate the impact of FDI from other sources of growth, it ought to be known if FDI affects positively or negatively on environmental quality in its bid to promote economic development—that is, does scale, composition (or structural) and technique effects of FDI harm the environment? In addition, the environmental policy regime is one factor that we will address since it influences both growth and the three forms of effects.

Although limited scientific works empirically show systematic evidence of the existence of the pollution haven hypothesis,4 [ 4] it has predominantly dominated most discussions on the three effects (scale, composition and technique) of FDI between developed and developing nations on the environment. Recent evidence indicates that the variation in the stringency of environmental policies of countries is not the dominant factor that influences the increase in inflow of FDI. According to B. Copeland and Gulati (2006), they suggest that other factors, such as capital abundance, technology differences, infrastructure, or distance to major markets, seem to be much more important than environmental policy in determining the flow of FDI into various countries. With this background, 'all things held constant' assuming that the pollution haven hypothesis does not exist, this implies that the inflow of FDI will nevertheless influence development towards some environmental strict developing countries.

The paper is organized as follows. In 'Introduction', we discuss the role of the environmental policy process and institutions and how they interact with the trade regime. In 'Research Methodology', we discuss the procedure we adopted in selecting relevant studies. Furthermore, in the 'The Policy Regime and Institutions', we review the empirical evidence on the effects of environmental policy on trade patterns and the evidence on the effect of trade on environmental quality. The 'China Openness and The Environment' considers policy issues, and the final section concludes.

Research methodology
Since China's adaptation and implementation of the 'reform and opening up' policy by https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deng%5fXiaoping in 1978, there have been numerous literatures on China's economic reformation process by many researchers. The essence of this paper is to evaluate the current and future environmental challenges in China given the fact that China is the leading recipient of FDI in the world. Thus, it has increased FDI and economic development affected the quality of the environment. With this spectrum, we cannot take credit for fully reviewing all related and pertinent resources. A cursory search was done using the Google search engine on broad thematic areas on Chinese economic development and environmental sustainability and foreign direct investment effect on environmental pollution in China which generated an outcome of 288,000,000 and 30,600,000 respectively. However, other pertinent searches were made on articles covering areas like economic growth and sustainable development in China, environmental regulation, foreign direct investment and green technological progress in China, 'China, business and sustainability', 'Chinese foreign direct investment inflows and pollution havens', 'delivering environmentally sustainable economic growth in China' and 'pollution abatement cost savings and FDI inflows to polluting sectors in China.' To enrich the write-up, we relied on electronically available English publications of peer-reviewed articles hosted by academic article databases like Elsevier (http://www.sciencedirect.com.avoserv2.library.fordham.edu), Springer (http://www.springerlink.com.avoserv2.library.fordham.edu), Francis & Taylor (http://www-tandfonline-com.avoserv2.library.fordham.edu), MPDI (http://www.mpdi.com) and Emerald Insight (http://www.emeraldinsight.com.avoserv2.library.fordham.edu). In addition, with the aid of the Google Scholar search engine (http://scholar.google.com.avoserv2.library.fordham.edu), related literatures otherwise published by international and Chinese governmental institutions and official websites of reputable organizations were retrieved. Some of these international institutions may include the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), United Nations Conference on Environment & Development (UNCED), the World Bank, (WB), World Health Organization (WHO), World Economic Forum (WEF) and World Trade Organization (WTO). The domestic governmental institutions included Ministry of Commence (MOFCOM) and Ministry of Ecology and Environment (MEE). In addition, official websites included the Congressional-Executive Commission on China (http://www.cecc.gov), China Water Risk (http://www.chinawaterrisk.org) and the Guardian (http://www.theguardian.com). For the purpose of this work, the article selection process considered for review followed a criteria adopted by Khan and Chang (2018) as follows: ( 1) research works on the policy regime, reformation and governmental institutions after the 'reform and opening up' policy in China; ( 2) research works on the nature of FDI inflow and its impact on economic development and the environment in China; ( 3) research works on the environmental challenges in China, effects on the health of the Chinese people, socioeconomic effects and catastrophic effects on Chinese natural resources; ( 4) research works on the measures taken to enforce environmental laws and counter environmental challenges; and ( 5) research works on China's quest for environmentally sustainable strategies. Aligning this work to these criteria, 91 publications were reviewed for the purpose of this work with respect to the fact that the publications were from to the 1990s to date.

The policy regime and institutions
The 'reform and opening up' policy in the 1970s has seen tremendous reformation of the Chinese economy. The inflow of FDI after the 1970 has increased, making FDI one of the building pillars of China's growth. China is currently the number one manufacturing economy and exporter of goods as a result of its remarkable industrial economic growth. This accomplishment of the Chinese economy has however been achieved at the expense of environmental quality. China loses about 10% of its yearly national income on environmental hazards (Zhang 2012). Thus, the activities of FDI either through the scale, composition (or structural) and technique effects affect the quality of the environment. This therefore gives room for the policymakers to enforce these environmental policies.

The stringency or flexibility of a country's environmental policy will determine the influx of FDI into the said country. For example, if there is a policy adjustment to curb water pollution, the strive for increased economic progression should in any way harm the water bodies. Likewise, if there is an imposition on solid waste disposal, economic activities should not escalate the haphazard discharge of solid waste pollutants. On the other hand, if the environmental policies are relaxed then the increased economic activities will harm the quality of water bodies just as it will increase the rampant discharge of solid waste pollutants. Therefore, in attempts to satisfy the needs of the present generation, the environmental regulatory agents are a vital institution in the sustainability of the environment so as not to hamper the needs of future generations (Jiang and Zheng 2017).

The environmental effects emanating from the activities of a country knows no boundaries implying the environmental quality of neighbouring countries, and the world at large could be harmed. For this reason, these activities are being guided by international environmental agreements known as multilateral environmental agreements (MEAs). These MEAs are collaborations between governments acknowledging that these are issues that cannot be tackled individually but need a collective action to solve matters relating but not limited to biodiversity loss, desertification, climate change, ozone layer depletion and acid rain. Agreements once reached are legally binding on signatory states of which the United Nations (UN) is the apex body. China as a member of the UN will therefore abide by such MEAs in their dealing to meet the socio-economic needs of its residents.

China openness and the environment
China over the decades has experienced rapid economic expansion at the expense of environmental quality (Liu 2012). Though the central government enacts fairly strict environmental regulations, the monitoring and implementation of the regulations are done by the local governments who are on the other hand motivated by economic growth. This challenge has hampered the success of a quality environment. Therefore, the Chinese government through the Ministry of Ecological Environment (MEE) is charged with the responsibility of curbing pollution and systematic destruction of the ecology. There have been several environmental protection policies initiated to curb the ever-deteriorating environmental menace. There has been a paradigm drift by the Chinese central government from 'economy vs environment' to 'economy & environment' by introducing and implementing policies, regulations, laws and standards over the past few years leading to groundwork for positive change. For the purpose of this research, our focus will be on the atmospheric, waste water and solid waste pollutions to the environment.

Solid waste
China's long-term sustainable progression has been hampered by haphazard discharge and disposal of solid waste (SW). China is by far the world's largest producer of solid, and yet the total amount of SW it generates keeps hiking. This has resulted into the formulation of various action plans by both the central and local government to tackle this challenge. New regulations and policies have been issued, urban infrastructure has been improved, and commercialization and international cooperation have been encouraged (Chen et al. 2010). In the recent past years, some SW policies have been implemented among which some may include the Solid Waste Pollution and Control Law which was implemented on 1 April 2005, in line with the 11th Five-Year Plan (11FYP). The purpose of enacting this law was to enhance environment quality, safeguarding human health, maintaining ecological security and promoting sustainable economic and social development by preventing the discharge and disposal of SW (CECC 2005). Other policies implemented were the 'Catalogues of Imported Wastes Management' and Circular Economy Promotion in 2009. The former was to prevent and control solid waste environmental pollution that is being imported from abroad into China (Yu et al. 2010) whereas the latter was to regulate waste reduction, reuse and recycling of SW produced domestically (NPC 2008).

Subsequently, various national environmental protection plans and laws have been implemented which influenced greatly in reducing SW generation and disposal. In 2011, the '12th Five-Year Plan' was implemented with its focus on cutting down industrial SW to about 72% by 2015 (Zhou et al. 2017). However, in 2015 there was a reformation of the Solid Waste Pollution Preventing and Control Law by the central government which was used as a legal framework to tightening the influx dumping of imported industrial SW while encouraging the development of a circular economy (Zhou et al. 2017). Besides, in 2018 the Environmental Protection Tax Law and a banned list of imported SW were again adopted. Enterprises pay tax based on the amount of SW discharged (Zhu 2018) whereas offenders of the banned list regulation either return the SW to the originator, fine penalty or face criminal persecution (Limin 2018). The central government intends to amend relevant regulations on control of imported SW by the end of 2018 and again revise the Solid Waste Pollution Prevention Law by the end of 2019 as their way of commitment to curbing SW disposal in China.

Water
In 2016, the water resource fee system was replaced and implemented by the water resource tax (WRT) which was done on a pilot basis. However, towards the end of 2017, the WRT was expanded to include more provinces. The WRT proposed a common tax rate cutting across the provinces but each respective province could impose higher taxes based on provincial conditions. The minimum tax charges are RMB 0.1-0.6/m3 for surface water and RMB 0.2-4/m3 for groundwater. These tax charges are applicable to special water extraction activities such as golf course maintenance, car washing and commercial bathing and enterprises in regions where groundwater is over-exploited. The WRT implementation has resulted to better water resource management, increased tax revenue, higher water use efficiency and stronger public water saving awareness. For example, during the pilot period in Hebei, there was a cut down of about 30% of groundwater over-exploitation, golf courses, car washing and commercial bathing all because of higher taxes being charged. The WRT has discouraged the reliance on groundwater to the use of transferred water usage which is being controlled and monitored by government departments (ChinaDaily 2017).

Furthermore, on 27 June 2017, the National People's Congress approved a revision on the 'Water Pollution Prevention and Control Law' which was to commence on 1 January 2018. Since there has always been a challenge by the local governments to adhere strictly to central government's environmental policies because they are motivated by economic growth, the central government promulgated this action plan to restore a balance between economic development and environmental sustainability. This law comes into force with four thematic areas ranging from the inclusion of the river chief system,5 [ 5] agricultural water pollution control,6 [ 6] drinking water safety protection7 [ 7] and stronger enforcement8 [ 8] (Chun 2017).

Additionally, in China's 13th Five-Year Plan (13FYP) which was adopted in 2015, roadmaps were outlined to combating environmental water pollution. Accelerating comprehensive environmental governance is a key move to achieving green development. With this, the central government intends to accomplish through 13FYP by reducing the discharge of pollutant chemical oxygen demand (COD) and ammonia by 2% which helps in the control and prevention of water pollution in key river basins; there should be a complete reformation in the agricultural water price, the quality of rural drinking water should be improved as well as assurance for consumption, there should be a mechanism put in place to control and prevent rural pollution of non-point sources and stricter environmental measures and supervision culpability should be enforced (KPMG 2016). On 16 April 2015, the State Council of China issued the 'Water Pollution Prevention and Control Action Plan' otherwise known as the 'Water Ten Plan'. The Water Ten Plan is an apex plan that ties with other '8 Game-Changing Policy Paths'9 [ 9] across the board. To prevent, control and enhance water quality, a coordinated action plan and policies with wide-ranging impact across sectors (industrial, agriculture, rural water and urban water) are taken by 12 ministries and government departments. The plan sets out action plans for which each government department is responsible for the outlined deadlines towards the accomplishment of desired targets. The plan in general covers the following broad areas:

Control pollution discharge, promote economic and industrial transformation and save & recycle resources
Promote science & technology progress, use market mechanisms and enforce law & regulations;
Strengthen management & ensure water environment safety
Clarify responsibilities & encourage public participation
The utmost aim of the Water Ten Plan is to ensure that China's water environment quality has improved by the end of 2020 by achieving the following: by reducing badly polluted water bodies in seven key rivers by 70% to a state of grade III or above, by enhancing the quality of urban drinking water sources in municipal areas by 93% to a state of grade III or above, by cutting down and controlling groundwater pollution by 15%, by improving environmental quality of coastal areas by 70% to a state of grade I or II and by improving urban water environment key regions (Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei) and prominent rivers (Yangtze River Delta and Pearl River Delta) to a state of grade V+ (CWR 2015b). With this plan in place, China is seen to be on the wheels to a renewed norm reformation leading to an anticipation that GDP will increase to about RMB 5.7 trillion with a novel investment regarding to environmental protection related industries of about RMB 1.9 trillion while creating about 3.9 million new non-agriculture jobs (Tan 2015).

Air
In a speech by Premier Li (2017) he said, 'Accelerating the improvement of the ecological environment, especially the air quality, is the urgent desire of the people, and the inherent requirement of sustainable development. (The government) must implement policy scientifically, tackling both the symptoms and root of the problem with iron fist, and strive to present our people with qualified answers', reaffirming Chinese governments' commitments and determination to curbing atmospheric pollution and being answerable to the citizens. Several strategies have been undertaken to tackling the environmental menace which include the following: the National Total Emission Control (NTEC) Program under the 12th Five Year Plan (12FYP) was to decrease the emission of air pollutants. The main pollutants under this program are SO2 and NOx for which there is an expectation of an 8% and 10% reduction respectively by the end of 2015 (Xue et al. 2013). The NTEC program does not include targets for other pollutants but encourages local governments to establish independent NTEC programs for other pollutants (Chazhong et al. 2009).

In 2015, China developed a 5-year plan meant to support climate change action. This current plan intends there be a 15% upsurge in the use of non-fossil fuels, an 18% diminution in the levels of fine particulate matter (PM 2.5) and a decrease in carbon dioxide emissions (Ruan 2016). Again, a revision on the law to Prevent and Control Atmospheric Pollution was done in 2015. Its main aim was to promote low-carbon and eco-friendly transportation through the use of clean and efficient coal during the production, utilization and transformation of coal (LSE 2015). Towards the close of the year in 2017, China launched the carbon emission trading system and green tax, making China the world's largest carbon emission-trading market. According to Yong (2017), the market will be set up to 'control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote green low-carbon development'. On 1 January 2018, the long-awaited Environmental Protection Tax (EPT) Law came into effect as a deterrent to harming environmental quality and replacing the existing pollutant discharge fee regime. The EPT law operates in such a way that there is an equally proportionate amount of money charged on the polluting entities based on the level of pollution produced. That is, for each unit of pollutant produced, a proportionate tax is placed on the producing entity or individual. The EPT law comes with a much higher tax base per unit of pollutant. The local governments are to ensure a much stricter implementation of this law thereby regulating the tax payable by entities should they discharge pollutants according to a quite detailed matrix of

Type of discharged pollutant
Type of pollution: atmosphere, water or soil
Polluting region of China
The tax calculation is based on the following formula:

Tax?=?taxable pollutant equivalent weight (PEW) × EPT tax rate.

PEW?=?total volume of taxable pollutant discharged/ pollutant equivalent volume (Geraci 2018).

Example: Company A in Jilin Province directly discharged 1 kg each of total mercury and 2 kg of cadmium. The EPT tax rate of water pollutants in Jilin Province is RMB 1.4/taxable PEW. According to the list of taxable pollutant and taxable pollutant equivalent volume,

PEW of mercury?=?1/0.0005?=?2000.

PEW of cadmium?=?2/0.005?=?400.

Tax of mercury?=?2000?×?1.4?=?2800.

Tax of total mercury?=?400?×?1.4?=?560.

In summary, China's Environmental Protection Law marked a renewed commitment by the central government to tackle the country's severe environmental problems. Taxation and ceiling fines have been raised, making pollution not attractive to individuals and entities; monitoring and implementation are also adhered to strictly at local levels. Non-governmental organizations are allowed to initiate public interest lawsuits. At the international level, China played a decisive role through its formal ratification of the Paris Agreement that is by agreeing along with the global community to keep global warming below 2 °C (3.6 °F).

Consequences for Chinese people
For every economy to develop, there is the need for engagements in rapid economic and industrial transformation. China has achieved this but at the expense of its environment. The outcomes are challenges faced by the public health of the citizenry and the biophysical environment (Khan and Chang 2018). The Chinese government has however taken various steps to rectify the damages caused, but environmental activists have criticized the Chinese government of not being pragmatic enough (Heffer 2016; Tianjie 2016). Environmental challenges affect the daily activities of the citizenry and, for that, every aspect of their well-being. In this section, we focus on some health and socioeconomic impacts of environmental woes on natural disasters.

Health
The advancement in science and for that matter medicine could account for improvement in life expectancy of people across the world. However, the Chinese environment is polluted with greenhouse gases (GHGs) emanating from the heavy reliance on fossil fuels to propel economic growth which has directly and indirectly affected public health (IEA 2009). Mortality/morbidity (in vulnerable people like children and the elderly) and various infectious diseases related to the extreme changes in the quality of air, water and the ecology entirely (Pedersen and Shapiro-Bengtsen 2015; Zhang et al. 2010). According to Rohde and Muller (2015), about three-eighths of the Chinese populace breathe polluted air containing unhealthy airborne fine particulate emitted by coal burning which could lead to cardiovascular diseases, asthma, stroke and lung cancer. This results in about 1.6 million outdoor air pollution-related yearly deaths (Rohde and Muller 2015). The people residing in and around the Huai River have a life expectancy of 5.5 years lower than those in the South of China all because of inhalation of polluted air (Albert 2016). The water quality in China is deplorable as could be described as causing 'catastrophic consequences for future generations', according to the World Bank. This is as a result of the disposal of chemical waste in drinking water sources (Tingting 2017). About half of China's population do not have access to potable water whereas two-thirds of rural China rely on stained water (Gibson 2018). The consumption of unsafe water results in schistosomiasis, helminthiasis and vector-borne as well as diarrhoeal diseases (EMORY 2012).

Socioeconomic
The rapid transformation of the Chinese economy has improved the livelihood of its citizenry. However, the repercussive effect the economic activities have on the environment is overwhelming and thus causes a negative effect on economic growth. Environmental damages have aroused an inclined social activism in recent times. A total of about three million Chinese have laid complaints to local environmental protection bureaus (EPBs) on Weibo through an app called 'Blue Sky'. It allows users to monitor real-time pollution emission of over 12,000 factors over China. Also, more than 51,000 social protests related to environmental complaints have been recorded in contemporary times, (Holtz 2017; Liu and Matsler 2009). The unsafe state of the water has led to factories in Xian city to lose about $250 million as a result of water shortage leading to closure. The operations of schools are also affected, because they will have to shut down too; therefore, they have adapted a principle of 'stop class but do not stop learning'. The schools however conduct online tutoring for the students which increases the operation cost of the schools as well as extra burden on parents since they will have to pay more (Chong 2016). The downpour of acid rain has claimed crop and forest lives amounting to about $750 million per year (Liu and Diamond 2005). Over the past two decades, China spends about 8-18% of its GDP on environmental reparations (Liu and Raven 2010). According to Pedersen and Shapiro-Bengtsen (2015), a recent study was conducted on the value of statistical life (VSL)10 [10] in China which represents a socioeconomic loss of about 1.68 million RMB. An estimated cost of 1.5 trillion RMB ($227 billion) representing a 3.5% of GDP was incurred on pollution as indicated by the sector ministry (Albert 2016).

Natural disaster
In recent years, China has been noted for its rampant occurrence of natural disasters. This could largely be attributed to human and economic activities. Among the frequent ones are floods, typhoons, landslides and earthquakes (Han et al. 2016). Zhang and McSaveney (2018) revealed in their study that acid rain from air pollution could trigger fatal landslides, particularly within the catchment area of Southwest China where coal is heavily relied on as source of energy. In 2017, hundreds of people lost their lives whereas over 1.6 million had to vacate their homes (Macfie 2017). Another revelation indicated that air pollution could initiate floods. Central China witnessed catastrophic floods resulting to about 200 people losing their homes, leaving about 300,000 homeless. Precipitation can be affected by atmospheric pollutants. For example, aerosol particles can increase the intensity of thunderstorm and delay rainfall. Soot particles also prevent the formation of rainclouds thereby delaying and leading to an intense rainfall at a later period (Griggs 2015; Pease 2015). The increase in acidified rains will surely increase forest soil acidity. Implying precipitation will be reduced leading to droughts. In 2017, about 2.67 million hectares of croplands were lost to droughts, whereas about 120,000 people and 500,000 livestock were also hit with a shortage of potable water resulting from droughts (Duan et al. 2013; Qiang 2017). Furthermore, increase in deforestation activities could lead to droughts. The deforestation activities distort the water cycle by first interrupting water that is drilled underground through the trees which is stored and ushered or supplied to rivers during droughts (Liu and Diamond 2005; Nyaga 2006). Both floods and droughts are catalysts to the destruction of vegetation and soil erosion.

The nature of FDI inflow in China
From 1978 to 2005, China gained a remarkable economic increment with an average degree of over 9%; this was the greatest gain in the world during that period (Abrams 2015). The achievement was endorsed by adoption and encouragement of inward foreign direct investment (FDI) in China. China takes the greatest FDI beneficiary in the emerging world and globally (Davies 2013). FDI inflow constitutes 7% of the gross capital establishment, with approximately 21% of the total tax income in mainland China. China recorded an all-time high of 877.56 billion yuan ($136.36 billion) worth of FDI inflow in 2017, up to 7.9% from 2016 (UNTACD 2018).

China has transitioned in terms of policy reformation from a restrictive to a permissive policy regime and later to a high-tech and more capital intensive policy era in the 1980s just to encourage the flow in of more FDI activity (Poncet 2010). China's attainment of a remarkable status as the fastest-growing economy among emerging and developing countries comes with the development of regulatory frameworks to attract and promote investment which has been successful. The adoption of the 'reform and opening up' policy led to the creation of special economy zones (SEZ), individual ownership and operation of businesses, expansion of the service sector and state-owned enterprises allowed to produce the above planned quotas and determination of price by the force of demand and supply (Brandt and Rawski 2008). However, this did not come without compromising the quality of the environment (Davies 2013). Irrespective of the 1997-1998 Asian and 2008 American crises that hit the global economy, the FDI flows to China were about $45 billion and $92.4 billion respectively, representing a small fraction as compared to the global contraction (Lemoine 2000; UNCTAD 2009). This makes China to be recognized as a risk-averse haven (Davies 2013).

According to statistics from (MOFCOM 2018), Hong Kong is a dominant source of FDI inflows into China (see Table 1, below), with about 72.5% in 2017. Hong Kong continues to enjoy being the lead investor because there seem to be a huge number of investors who route their investments through Hong Kong because they enjoyed tax incentives until China adopted a uniform tax system for both foreign and domestic investors. Singapore is the second country with about 3.5% followed by Taiwan Province at 3.47%, Republic of Korea (R.O.K) at 2.7% and Japan 2.4%, all of which are Asian countries accounting for about 84.66% of FDI inflows to mainland China. The remaining countries are USA at 2.3%, Netherlands at 1.6%, Germany at 1.12%, UK at 1.1% and Denmark 0.6%, while the other countries with investments in China consist of about 8.62% (Table 2).

National environmental protection plans

ID	Year	Solid waste policies and plans
1	2005	Solid Waste Pollution and Control Law
2	2009	Catalogues of Imported Wastes Management
3	2011	National Total Emission Control
4	2015	Solid Waste Pollution Preventing and Control Law (Revised Version)
5	2016	Environmental Protection Law
6	2018	Environmental Protection Tax Law
Source: Summarized by authors

Sources of Top Ten China's FDI inflows in 2017 (USD 100 million)

Origin	FDI inflow	% of total
Hong Kong	98.92b	72.54327
Singapore	4.83b	3.542094
Taiwan Province	4.73b	3.468759
R.O.K	3.69b	2.706072
Japan	3.27b	2.398064
USA	3.13b	2.295395
Netherlands	2.17b	1.591376
Germany	1.54b	1.129363
UK	1.5b	1.100029
Denmark	820m	0.601349
Others	11.76b	8.62423
Total	136.36b	100.00
Source: (MOFCOM 2018) website, http://www.fdi.gov.cn and authors' calculations

The onset of FDI inflow progressed with the declaration of the Equity Joint Venture Law in July 1979 as a contractual form allowing the magnitude of foreign investor control. The law was meant to provide a legal outline for distant investors to take part as cooperative project partners with Chinese associates (Fu 2007). According to Cheung and Ping (2004), the law led to the promotion of the coastal areas of China, enticement of foreign funding and finally emphasis on China's opening up to the globe. Subsequently, the practice of equity joint ventures (EJVs) became the dominant mode of investment in the 1980s. China's transition to a market economy in the contractual form also evolved to wholly owned subsidiaries of foreign companies (Poncet 2010).

FDI has beneficial spill-over impact in developing industrial output in China. It commonly attributes to the profits that the domestic firms gain from the inflow of FDI (Zhao and Zhang 2010). According to Cheung and Ping (2004), domestic corporations can appreciate in terms of technological knowledge and demonstrate positive impacts on innovative activities through the inflow of FDI. Also, the inflow of FDI is vital; it constitutes the largest margin of China's GDP as it accounts for 40% of the gross income (Boumphrey 2014). According to Alfaro and Chauvin (2016), FDI is the engine of host economic growth; inward FDI promotes capital info and employment growth (Table 3). FDI develops manufacturing exports. FDI brings special resources such as management knowledge, skilled labour admission to global production systems and recognized brand names. Also, FDI results in expertise transferrals and external impacts (UNCTAD 2009). In China, FDI has promoted economic development via raising capital establishment, raising industrialized output, creating employment to the citizens and adding tax income. Furthermore, according to Zhang (2003), FDI appears to contribute the largest percentage of China's GDP, and it impacts the economy both directly and externally.

Statistics about utilization of FDI in China, 2017

The mode of utilizing foreign investment	Approved FDI for 2017 number of projects	Realized FDI value
2017	2016	Change from last year (%)	2017	2106	Change from last year (%)
Total	35,652	27,900	27.78	1310.35	1260.01	3.99
I. FDI	35,652	27,900	27.78	1310.35	1260.01	3.99
Equity joint venture	8364	6662	25.55	297.41	302.04	??1.53
Contractual joint venture	124	126	??1.59	8.05	8.3	??2.97
Wholly foreign owned enterprise	27,007	21,024	28.46	913.44	861.26	6.06
Share company with foreign investment	125	86	45.35	64.75	88.42	??26.77
Joint exploration	2	0	0	11.8	0	0
Partnership enterprise	30	0	0	14.9	0	0
Others	0	2	?100	0	0	0
II. Others foreign investment	0	0	0	0	0	0
Stock insurance	0	0	0	0	0	0
International leasing	0	0	0	0	0	0
Compensation trade	0	0	0	0	0	0
Processing & assembling	0	0	0	0	0	0
Source: (MOFCOM 2018) website, http://www.fdi.gov.cn

Economic development and the environment in China
The past decades have encountered a series of intense debates from various researchers in attempt to distinguish either between economic development (ED) and environmental sustainability (ES) or the relationship between the two. World policymakers irrespective of the academic discourse have noticed the relevance of sustaining the environment in their bid to engage in economic activities (Alam and Kabir 2013). For the sake of meeting the needs of residents, development is seen as an ideology for most governments. Though the methods of accomplishment might vary, most governments envisage economic development as the panacea that can solve any of the world's hitches (Demaria 2018). Thus, with this as an aim, any nation that can attain economic development will be better tailored to meet the wants of individuals and resolve overall welfare through enhancing quality of life which is measured by life expectancy, literacy, gross domestic product and so forth, thereby ensuring the well-being of the economy and improving the standard of living, by raising incomes/providing jobs (Rios et al. 2013). Economic development elucidates a progression of economic wealth of a country or a specific landmass, aimed at the overall welfare of its residence, that is, the progress in the socio-economic structure of the economy covering living conditions, technological advancement, improvement in self-esteem needs, the creation of opportunities, per capita income, infrastructural and industrial development and so on (Hadjimichael et al. 2014).

China over three decades has not been an exception in terms of striving to develop the economy to meet the needs of its residents. During this transition period of economic development, China became the world's fastest-developing economy and for that matter the second largest market economy in the world after USA with about $11 trillion or 14.8% of the world economy (WEF 2017). This achievement was not attained without compromising the environmental quality. On the contrary, the current 2017 report from the World Bank indicates that China is experiencing a slowdown in its economic transition and it is the 16th fastest-growing economy with an expected growth of about 6.5% (WB 2017). Does China's present position imply that it has been hit by economic crisis or it is a deliberate attempt by the government to slow down economic development and focus on environmental sustainability? Hence, our attention is drawn to considering the following issues when it comes to economic development:

Should China strive for growth now at the expense of its environment just like the developed countries? Or
Should China acknowledge the worth of its environment today and the benefits for tomorrow, as it endeavours for total progression of its economy?
For the purpose of this paper, we will consider the latter which however will be a challenging decision for policymakers, as the promotion of economic development is seen as a way to lift developing countries out of poverty and improve the quality of life of their citizens while being mindful of degrading the environment.

China's economic development over the years has been good for the growth of real GDP; however, the environmental quality has equally been compromised as an outcome of the increasing economic activities which have had a repercussive effect on the citizens. This in the long run also has a negative effect on the economy since the natural system will eventually die off thereby reducing economic output. For example, on December 8, 2015, the municipal government of Beijing declared its first ever environmental state of emergency (also referred as airpocalypse) warning the people to take precautions with their health because the level of environmental pollution was about 15 times higher than what the World Health Organization deems safe. This subsequently led to the close-down of schools, forced motorists off the road and shutdown of factories (Phillips 2015). There has been a growing burden on China's environmental quality and, for that matter, natural resources because of increasing economic activities. Per this accession, if it is assumed that environmental and natural resource depletion is proportionate to economic development, then the only way out for China is to limit economic advancement.

However, a different view is expressed by Gassebner et al. (2010) indicating that countries that are focused on economic development through the inflow of FDI will experience growth at the initial stage with associated increased environmental exploitation. The pollution levels will attain peak levels and then begin to decline because of higher agitations by the residence for their economic welfare by consuming environmental-friendly products produced through the use of advanced production techniques which promote environmental quality. Again, if this thinking is one to go by, then there will be no need for China to limit economic development to enhance environment quality, since eco-friendly technologies could be adopted alongside encouraging economic reforms which will be less detrimental to the environment while the economy develops concurrently.

As discussed earlier, the level of impact of economic activity on the environment is assessed through the scale, composition (structural) and technique effects. Some researchers like Adu and Denkyirah (2018), Baojuan et al. (2011) and Xuemei et al. (2011) used the environmental Kuznets curve to explain the relationship between economic activity and the environment. These three effects were used as models to determine the impact of income growth on the environment. That is, the reorganization of the production structure influences the net effect of economic development. Thus, as pollution emission increases, consumption also goes up. In the long run, the consumption pattern changes towards the demand for environmental-friendly goods forcing the reorganization of the production structure towards the use of more advanced technologies in the production process which diminishes pollution levels. This view explains the inverted-U relationship between income growth and the environment.

Considering both views expressed above by various researchers, there is still difficulty establishing a link between FDI-motivated economic development and impact on the environment (Pazienza 2014b). Researchers like Fodha and Zaghdoud (2010) and Junjie Zhang (2012) hold the view that not all the various forms of pollutants conform to the environmental Kuznets curve. Pollutants like sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides, lead, and sewage do not. This is the case for China. For example, the emission of SO2 peaked in 2006 at about 25.89 million metric tons and in 2016 it trickled down to about 11.28 million metric tons with a corresponding per capital of GDP of about $2099 and $8123 USD in current prices respectively. A similar pattern exists for nitrogen oxides and smoke and dust in China. In addition, wastewater pollutants in China also conform to this view. In 2011, the emission of chemical oxygen demand (COD) peaked at about 24.999 million tons but about 10.46 million tons in 2016. A similar pattern exists for ammonia nitrogen and cadmium (Yearbook 2007, 2012, 2017). On the contrary, researchers like Baojuan et al. (2011) hold the opinion that pollutants in the form of by-products of energy use, biodiversity loss, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and other emerging pollutant emissions do not conform to the U-relationship between income growth and the environment. For example, China's emission of climate changing carbon dioxide (CO2) has been on the rise from the burning of fossil fuels. The use of oil and natural gas too has shot up since China has become the world's largest car market, making China a world leader in the emission of CO2 and GHG (Zhang 2012).

The presence of these pollutants which either peaked or not indicates that economic activities are ongoing for which these pollutants are emitted. The continuous emission of these pollutants could lead to a state of uneconomic growth.11 [11] The economic expansion should be tailored towards the needs, wants and well-being of the population. For example, in 2016 Sanya, Guilin, Kunming, Lhasa and Xiamen provinces were considered the safest provinces with less PM2.5 pollutants of about 20 (?g/m3 of particulate matter <?2.5 ?m, likewise below), irrespective of the economic activities underway. Residents of these provinces can enjoy the serenity of nature, less environmental pollution and health risks. However, if the economic expansion results to exhaustion of natural resources, exposure to pollution, health risks, excessive use of labour and loss of leisure, then it should not be encouraged. For example, in the same year Xinjiang and Henan were considered the worst polluted provinces with PM2.5 levels of surpassing 100 ?g per cubic metre (that is 10 times more than safe levels by WHO) (Jing 2016). Therefore, there is the need to be able to determine the maximum limits of production (see Fig. 1). Figure 1 tries to conceptualize the attainment of a balance between the provision of the needs and well-being of residents and sacrificing the needs and well-being for production. The intersection point of the marginal utility12 [12] (MU) and marginal disutility13 [13] (MD) is the optimal point of production for consumption, a point where the highest form of satisfaction can be derived by the residents. Any extra satisfaction beyond this point enters the realm of dissatisfaction and thus uneconomic growth. This is sacrificing their well-being and environmental quality for immediate satisfaction otherwise known as futility limit. Based on Fig. 1, the futility limit of developed and richer countries may be far approaching. With China considered as an emerging economy, the challenge will be how to determine it has reached its economic limit or optimum point so as not to produce beyond this point. Therefore, there is a need to implement needed green policies targeted at encouraging the usage of advanced technologies in the production process.When Growth is Bad. Source: adopted from (Daly 2005)

PHOTO (COLOR)

The diverse views on the environmental Kuznets curve implies that it is still a phenomenon which is yet to be conclusive and for that matter will be challenging for economists and policymakers to rely on it to enhance environmental quality while embarking on economic activities. To begin with, the issue of determining when an emission pollutant peaks before it begins to diminish is challenging. In addition, it is worth noting that the natural environment once it has been depleted cannot retain its original state irrespective of the advanced technology used, thereby destroying the earth's life-supporting systems. Again, due to lapses in researches, there is still no concrete establishment of a positive link between economic development and the environment (Higgins 2013).

Despite the ongoing debate on the curve, China will undoubtedly continue its economic development agenda maybe not as vigorously as some decades ago. This is evident in the current 2017 report from the World Bank which indicates that China is experiencing a slowdown in its economic transition with an expected growth of about 6.5%. The slowdown could suggest that China is redirecting its reformation policies from economic development towards greening the environment to ensure its sustainability. China might not have peaked in the emission of some pollutants like CO2, ozone O3, NOx, particulate matter (PM) and volatile organic compounds (VOC), but having a careful look at the environmental Kuznets curve, it is realized that income growth in itself does not ensure environmental quality but governmental policies do. Therefore, while income growth seems to be a necessary social and economic aim of the Chinese government, the government can reconcile it with the obvious need for correct and appropriate greening policies to ensure the natural environment is also sustained to meet the needs of future generations.

The quest for environmental sustainability

China's sustainability strategies
It is clear that the Chinese economic development ideology is a good one, but it is however achieved by riding on the back of environmental degradation which is prone to exposure to pollution and health hazards of residence leading to the destruction of the natural capital. This would appear to require a shift in China's 'growth-at-all-costs' approach to green-economic policymaking. China in recent years has heeded to calls for the need for greening the environment. With this, we intend to look at the kind of environmental sustainability strategies the Chinese government embarked on to achieve this course.

Environmental sustainability (ES), according to Morelli (2011), could be defined as a 'condition of balance, resilience, and interconnectedness that allows human society to satisfy its needs while neither exceeding the capacity of its supporting ecosystems to continue to regenerate the services necessary to meet those needs nor by our actions diminishing biological diversity'. From the definition, it could be deduced that human beings need ES to enhance their welfare as well as social sustainability. This could be achieved by ensuring that in the course of undertaking their (humans) social and economic activities, the source for which the raw materials are being exploited should be protected and the extracted raw materials should be within limits of the biological and physical environment so as to prevent harm on human beings. ES is the main focus here, but sustainable development (SD) and carrying capacity (CC) are considered as a means to an end which is ES. According to Emas (2015), SD is the 'long-term stability of the economy and environment; this is only achievable through the integration and acknowledgement of economic, environmental, and social concerns throughout the decision making process' whereas Goodland and Daly (1996) say CC is the 'maximum population size of a given species that an area can support without reducing its ability to support the same species in the future'. This is to say, as the government of a nation intends to meet the needs of the present generation without compromising the needs of future generations, population growth should be controlled as well.

China over the years has centred on growth-driven policies at the expense of the environment. As a result of public renewal in environmental awareness, increasing pressure from influential domestic and international environmental organizations and inflow of foreign aid and technology, China has drifted towards sustainability. In its sustainability agenda, China has adapted several action plans through the numerous 5-year national development plans implemented over the years. A summary of some major strategies adapted can be seen below.

China, in its quest to attain sustainability, adapted the Agenda 21 and Plan of Implementation in 1992 and 1993 respectively which were in line with the strategies agreed at the Earth Summit (UN Conference on Environment and Development) held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. China's developed various sectoral Agenda 21s and plans of action aimed at a sustained population, environment and development (UNCED 1992) (Table 4). Furthermore, as the largest emerging economy in the world, China is endeavouring fervently in ensuring the accomplishment of the 2030 Agenda for sustainable development adapted at the United Nations Sustainable Development Summit. China has implemented domestic mid-and-long term sustainability strategies known as the National Plan which are inculcated in its 13th FYP. The end point of the National Plan is that its people centred focusing on innovation, coordination, greening, open and shared and harmonized development with other countries, (Akosile 2016). China over the years has recorded some successes and improvements in indicators of sustainable development (see Table 5 below).

The table above shows a yearly ranking of the top 30 provincial sustainable indicators from 2013 to 2017. The four autonomous municipalities of Shanghai, Chongqing, Tianjin and Beijing are considered as provinces in the rankings because they normally take part in the administrative decision at provincial levels. The sustainability rankings revealed that coastal provinces in the east and south in addition to the autonomous municipalities led the rankings. These coastal provinces in the east and south as well as the four autonomous municipalities lead the rankings in economic development,14 [14] social welfare and environmental management indicators.15 [15] This is because their various provincial economies are dominated by highly sophisticated industrial and service sector activities. On the other hand, the inland provinces (like Inner Magnolia, Heilongjiang, Qinghai and Xinjiang) top only in environmental resources. This is because there are very few industrial activities going on in these provinces and therefore have green land per capita and water resources per capita. Surprisingly, the four autonomous municipalities and coastal provinces in the east and south also top in environmental management, consumption and emission. Because they are dominated by highly sophisticated industrial and service sector activities, they place a higher priority on environmental sustainability by implementing stringent regulations. The effect of this is the relocation of industries to the inland provinces with less rigorous environmental policies leading to the pollution of these provinces.

Criticism
The Chinese government has in numerous ways shown its commitment in ensuring a cleaner environment. However, some environmental activists and NGOs have descended heavily on the government over certain pertinent issues regarding the environment. These may include but not be limited to the following: first, in 2017 the Chinese government revised the Water Pollution Prevention and Control Law to give more power to the local environmental administrators to seize polluting equipment, fine and prosecute environmental defaulters and daily supervise among many more or otherwise punish for nonperformance (Chun 2017). On the contrary, since its revision, no government official has been made to face the law for failure to meet standards (Khan and Chang 2018). Second, China is lauded for launching the carbon emission trading market system and green tax to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote green low-carbon development (Yong 2017). However, this market system has encountered several challenges including lack of understanding of the trading system by most of the emitting companies leading to low participation in the program, lack of zeal from the government officials and no systematic approach in determining the market price (Goulder et al. 2017; Khan and Chang 2018). Third, the introduction of the specialized environmental courts in China was to help resolve environmental disputes. However, in practice, the environmental courts encounter predicaments ranging from issues of legality, caseload and bureaucratic procedures (Minchun and Bao 2012). Fourth, the environmental protection tax law was passed to impose taxes on pollutants from water, air and noise. Surprisingly, carbon dioxide emission pollutants were excluded in the list of pollutants which were to be taxed. These constitute greenhouse gases (GHGs) which emanates from fossil fuels which China relies on for production (Rohde and Muller 2015). China has been criticized both at the local and international levels for excluding these very important contributors to global warming, and steps are underway for their inclusion.

Conclusion and recommendations
China over the years has taken a gargantuan leap in combating environmental canker at the city, provincial and national levels. However, more is yet expected to be done by the Chinese government since it is still the world's manufacturing leader. The continuous increase in production implies that there will emission of gases into the atmosphere. The reliance on coal in the production process and the emission of SO2 and CO2 during the manufacturing process must be controlled before their rippling effects become so catastrophic in the nearest future. Investments into wind power energy should be given high priority as an alternative for coal in the production process. New amendments of the already existing laws should be implemented with stricter adherence to these pollutants. It is worth mentioning that local environmental officers and administrators at provincial and city levels should be strict in enforcing the laws to the letter. Punishments should be meted out to any offended of the law. In addition, the government should be open to constructive criticisms from both NGOs and environmental activists so as to help keep the government in check by measuring standards with performance. When the laws are strictly enforced by local officers and complied by industry players, it helps create a conducive and eco-friendly environment for China and for that matter the world at large.
